MALLIKANSI VUOSIKERTOMUS 2013 Year 2013 › Lemminkäinen in brief Lemminkäinen in brief We are known for our expertise in infrastructure construction, In 2013, Lemminkäinen Group’s net sales were about EUR building construction and technical building services. We 2.2 billion, of which international operations accounted for operate in northern Europe. With a hundred years of roughly 42 per cent. We employ about 7,800 construction experience we create conditions that make living, working professionals. Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share is quoted and travelling easy, safe and healthy. We aim to grow in to on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange Helsinki. one of the leading providers of demanding infrastructure solutions in Northern Europe. We will also seek profitable growth in residential development and construction in Russia. KEY FIGURES 2013 2012 change, % Net sales, EUR million 2,218.2 2,267.6 -2.2 of which operations abroad, EUR million 929.0 897.3 3.5 Operating profit, EUR million -90.9 50.4 over 100 Profis for financial year, EUR million -93.5 44.1 over 100 Operating margin, % -4.1 2.2 over 100 Return on investment, % -9.4 10.8 over 100 Return on equity, % -24.4 11.1 over 100 Equity ratio, % 27.3 37.2 -26.6 Basic earnings per share, EUR -5.06 2.04 over 100 Dividend per share, EUR 0.00 1) 0.60 Gross investments, EUR million 71.2 64.5 10.4 Order book, EUR million 1,821.3 1,443.9 26.1 Average number of employees 7,823 8,180 -4.4 Accident frequency rate, accidents/ million working hours 16.3 22.0 2) Net Promoter Score 23.4 29.3 1) Board of Directors' proposal to the AGM 2) Excluding operations in Russia 1 SITE_FOOTER NET SALES, EUR million NET SALES BY SEGMENT 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 International operations, 41% (38%) 09 10 11 12 13 Building construction, 26% (28%) Infrastructure construction, 23% (24%) Technical building services, 10% (10%) OPERATING PROFIT, EUR million NET SALES BY MARKET AREA 100 50 0 -50 -100 09 10 11 12 13 Finland, 58% Other Nordic countries, 27% Russia and Eastern Europe, 8% Other countries, 7% EARNINGS PER SHARE, DIVIDEND PER SHARE, EUR ORDER BOOK, EUR million 2.50 2,000 0.00 1,500 -2.50 1,000 -5.00 500 -7.50 09 10 11 12 13* Earnings per share 0 Dividend per share 09 10 11 12 13 * Board of Directors' proposal to the AGM 2 SITE_FOOTER GEARING, % CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES, EUR 125 million 75 100 50 75 25 50 0 25 -25 0 09 10 11 12 13 -50 09 10 11 12 13 Year 2013 › CEO's review CEO's review Dear Lemminkäinen shareholders, In 2013, we focused on improving our operational 3 SITE_FOOTER efficiency and preparing our new strategy aimed at 2018. construction projects. We will make sure that the good The positive effects of the last couple of years’ efficiency results and best practices we have obtained in our working programmes were already visible in the operational result of capital optimisation will continue to be applied. our operations in Finland. When we do the everyday work right, our result for 2014 will However, despite the activities made, I cannot be satisfied be clearly better than in the previous years. with the 2013 financial result. Challenges in international operations and significant non-recurring items made our Insightful solutions result clearly negative. The largest non-recurring items Efficiency, profitability and solvency form the foundation on included the damages related to the asphalt cartel case, which we will build our strategy which extends to the year decided in the District Court of Helsinki last November, and 2018. Our vision in the new strategy is to offer insightful write-downs, related primarily to commercial properties. solutions above ground and underground. With insightful The weak result affected our financial goals as well: the solutions we will bring added value both to our customers return on investment was negative and the equity ratio and the users of the built environment. We believe that in weakened considerably from the previous year. this way we can be an even better partner and, at the same time, distinguish ourselves from conventional operators in Ever more efficient the construction industry. We have carried out two large efficiency programmes in We have been actively involved in developing new kinds of Finland, and the results are beginning to show in our operating models in this industry. In Tampere, we are operational result. Our cost structure has become lighter, renewing the Rantaväylä route in a unique alliance contract corporate structure simpler and service offering more with customers. Together with Etera, we developed a consistent, and we have harmonised our business processes cooperation model to build three modern office blocks in the and information systems. Töölö Bay area in Helsinki. In addition, there was room for our residential development and construction as well. The Efficiency programmes in other countries were started later, parking facility which we built under the Finlandia Hall makes so the results from those will not be visible until this year. In the area even more pleasant. In Kuopio and Oulu, we will addition to cost discipline, we have to improve our everyday assume the 25-year lifecycle responsibility for the operations, starting from project management, which last maintenance of the schools we built. We believe that the year failed in in some projects. There is tremendous potential best results are achieved when the customer and the service in improving efficiency and competitiveness, as the market provider plan projects together in genuine cooperation, and all situation in Russia, Norway, Sweden and Denmark is much parties share the same vision of the objective and the end better than in Finland. result. In the coming years, we wish to assume an even It is obvious that we have to change the ways in which we bigger role as an innovator of operating models for construction. operate. In order to minimise the effects of seasonal fluctuation Insightful solutions are economical for our customers and we need to adjust the number of personnel, increase profitable for us. Such solutions require also in the future subcontracting and strengthen our year-round service critical evaluation and upgrading of conventional production offering. techniques, efficient planning and project management as well as a network of competent partners, among other things. We will reduce project risks with better planning, more accurate pricing and improved project monitoring. We New kinds of expertise are also required of both customers will deal with any irregularities promptly. and service providers. For example, the significance of sustainable development will increase, particularly in terms We will continue to keep our costs down. In Finland and of energy and material efficiency. This requires that we Norway, for instance, we will continue to reduce the number of our regional units in locations where the continuously develop our production and services. market situation is the most difficult and where we have not achieved our financial goals. In addition to our customers, also our other stakeholders such as residential property investors, owners and decision makers To increase the cash flow we will boost housing sales to both are increasingly interested in sustainability issues. We believe consumers and investors in Finland and Russia. We will also that operating according to the principles of sustainable strengthen our position in specialised infrastructure development will give us a competitive advantage. Construction concentrating in urban growth 4 SITE_FOOTER Construction concentrating in urban growth the road and rail networks, particularly around and between urban growth centres. centres Our new strategy is based on megatrends, particularly At Lemminkäinen, we view the changes in the operating urbanisation, which continues to increase. environment first and foremost as opportunities. We have experience and evidence of solutions for carrying out In Finland, residential construction focuses in urban growth challenging projects in city centres—be it new housing, centres, and major commercial construction projects in the renovations of prestigious properties, underground parking Helsinki metropolitan area in particular. Worry for the vitality facilities or traffic flows. of other areas in emphasised. Furthermore, major infrastructure construction projects, also, are focused in Towards better times urban growth centres. In addition to major traffic projects, Lemminkäinen is a 103-year-old company that does not basic infrastructure is improved. At the same time elsewhere want to be a prisoner of history. We have a strong will to in Finland, asphalt-paved roads are retrograded back into reinvent ourselves and, at the same time, reshape the whole gravel roads because of cuts in public spending. construction industry. After a difficult 2013, we know that In Russia, also, roads between large population centres are we must first focus our efforts on building a strong being renovated. In large cities, the demand for centrally foundation. On that foundation we will build an even more located, high quality housing continues to be steady despite insightful and trustworthy Lemminkäinen. the unstable economy. New residential areas and whole I want to thank our employees for their hard efforts last year. towns are arising near the traditional urban growth centres. Thanks to you, we started 2014 more efficiently than before, Construction quality and energy efficiency are becoming with a record-high order backlog. I thank our customers for more and more important. good cooperation, which will hopefully become even closer in Urbanisation has been for fast in Norway, Sweden and the years to come. My thanks also go to our shareholders for Denmark than in Finland. In each of these countries the their patience and faith in us. It is now our task to repay that government has undertaken the responsibility to maintain faith. national competitive advantage. Long-term investment Timo Kohtamäki programmes have been started to develop, for example, the energy supply sector and maintain and repair Year 2013 › Strategy Strategy 2010–2013 Our main targets in the strategy period 2010–2013 were the development of business operations, the strengthening of our financial position, the clarification of our company structure and the standardisation of operating methods in order to form one united Lemminkäinen. Through these measures, we sought a return on investment exceeding 18 per cent, an equity ratio of at least 35 per cent and an annual net sales growth at an average of 10 per cent over the long term. Background to the strategy period of municipalities became more unstable, which decreased investments in construction. The recession in the construction industry in 2008 and 2009 changed the Finnish market permanently. For example, Until 2009, Lemminkäinen was a holding company commercial construction, the former cornerstone of consisting of dozens of independent subsidiaries. This Lemminkäinen’s building construction, has not returned to structure supported our growth during the economic boom its pre-recession level. The economic situation that continued for an exceptionally long 5 SITE_FOOTER time. However, the financial crisis showed that our previous of our company structure and more standardised operating structure and way of operating were no longer competitive. methods. Lemminkäinen’s development required the clarification Main financial targets for the strategy period 2010–2013 Target: Net sales growth at an average of 10 per Target: Return on investment more than 18 per cent cent During the strategy period, the total volume of A return on investment of 18 per cent would have construction in Finland developed more weakly than required an operating margin of approximately 5 per what we estimated in 2009. cent. Towards the end of the strategy period, we reduced Our profitability was impaired by, for example, the amount of competitive contracting in building investments related to the establishment of a united construction. Group, challenges posed by growth in international project management and significant one-offs, the We established prerequisites for net sales growth in largest of them being the damages related to the Russia by acquiring plots in central locations for asphalt cartel in the autumn 2013. residential development and construction. In St Petersburg, the permit process slowed construction In order to lighten our cost structure, we launched activities. two efficiency programmes: We strengthened our infrastructure construction The aims of the 2011 programme included operations in Norway through corporate acquisitions. savings of approximately EUR 30 million by We returned to the Swedish paving market. improving the efficiency of procurement and the lightening of the cost structure by We divested our roofing and concrete business approximately EUR 20 million starting from operations. 2014. The target of the 2013 programme was savings of approximately EUR 30 million by the end of 2014. The aim is to shift the focus of business operations to more profitable segments. NET SALES, EUR million AND CAGR, % RETURN ON INVESTMENT, % 3,000 15 10 2,000 5 0 1,000 -5 0 -10 09 10 11 12 13 Net sales CAGR: 3.1% -15 09 10 11 12 13 Target: Equity ratio more than 35 per cent 6 SITE_FOOTER Our equity ratio developed favourably during the Target: Dividend distribution 40 per cent of net strategy period. During the last year of the strategy profit period, it was impaired by failures in project management and significant one-offs. For 2013, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that no dividend be In spring 2012, a EUR 70 million domestic hybrid distributed due to the clearly negative result. bond was issued. The divestment of roof and concrete business operations strengthened our equity ratio. EQUITY RATIO, % We improved our working capital management. 40 30 20 10 0 09 10 11 12 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE, DIVIDEND PER SHARE, EUR 2.50 0.00 -2.50 -5.00 -7.50 09 10 11 12 13* Earnings per share Dividend per share * Board of Directors' proposal to the AGM Development of business operations At the beginning of the strategy period, we defined infrastructure construction in Scandinavia, residential During the strategy period, we sought growth in areas in construction in Russia as well as renovation and technical which we had an opportunity to gain a significant position or building services as growth areas. Halfway through the which required special expertise. In addition, we wanted to strategy period, we further specified our strategy and defined strengthen our position in our core business operations. residential development and construction and the upkeep Consequently, we decided to divest business operations in and maintenance of technical building systems in Finland as which we had no prerequisites for profitable growth. new focus areas, alongside infrastructure construction in Scandinavia and residential construction in Russia. 7 SITE_FOOTER We divested our roof and concrete business operations and of demanding infrastructure solutions in Northern Europe. much of our telecommunications network construction. The development of these operations would have required us to Residential construction in Russia make extensive investments. Our aim was to create prerequisites to start the residential development and construction of approximately 1,000 Infrastructure construction in Finland apartments each year in St Petersburg. During the strategy Public investments in construction and maintenance of period, we acquired plots in central locations in the centre of roads in Finland decreased during the strategy period. St Petersburg. Business development has been more slow Therefore, we actively sought new business opportunities than estimated, as the permit process postponed the start of from special infrastructure projects in which we have strong construction and the sales of apartments. Nevertheless, we competence. We won several major underground started the residential development and construction of infrastructure construction projects in urban growth centres. nearly 800 apartments in St Petersburg in 2013. For example, in the Helsinki metropolitan area, Tampere and Oulu, we built underground parking facilities and other In our new strategy, one of our aims is to extend the premises such as technical spaces and service tunnels. residential development and construction business from St Petersburg to other selected urban growth centres. We will We are involved in the construction of the West Metro (the also explore opportunities to increase our infrastructure Metro line between Helsinki and Espoo) in several projects construction offering in Russia. from excavation to construction of stations. In addition, we participated in the construction of the Kehärata railway line Building construction in Finland in two different projects. During the strategy period, we were In order to improve our profitability, towards the end of the also involved in several mining projects in Finland and strategy period we have invested especially in strengthening northern Sweden. residential development and construction. Our aim was to increase the share of residential development and In the paving business, we improved our operational construction to more than 50 per cent of the net sales of efficiency and simplified our operating model. In spite of building construction in Finland. In 2013, the share of tightened competition, we retained our position as the market residential development and construction was 40 per cent. leader. We reduced the amount of competitive contracting. In Infrastructure construction in Scandinavia renovation, we are increasingly concentrating on demanding The States of Sweden and Norway have published extensive projects mainly in the Helsinki metropolitan area. infrastructure development programmes. We have strong expertise in Finland, but public investments and market In the coming strategy period, we will continue to invest in outlook have been modest. During the strategy period, we residential development and construction. Instead of the aimed to strengthen our position in the Scandinavian market, former aim of nationwide coverage, we will focus on in part through acquisitions and in part by utilising the residential construction in selected urban growth centres. resources in Finland. Technical building services in Finland During the entire strategy period, our net sales in the The smaller volume of building construction decreased the Scandinavian infrastructure market increased by nearly EUR demand for contracting in technical building services. We 300 million. A significant portion of this growth comes from strengthened our upkeep and maintenance services alongside the corporate acquisition made in 2010 in which we acquired contracting. At the end of the strategy period, the share of Mesta Industri, a company operating in the paving and the upkeep and maintenance services was 30 per cent of the mineral aggregates sector, from the State of Norway. The net sales of the technical building services business. integration of Mesta into Lemminkäinen has been more demanding than we originally estimated. Regardless of A united Lemminkäinen efficiency measures, we have not yet been able to turn these operations profitable. In the strategy period, we harmonised our operations, clarified our Group structure and gathered our operations under the We have been granted many special infrastructure projects Lemminkäinen brand. The aim was to improve our customer by the mining and energy industry, for example. In the future, service and operational flexibility and efficiency. we aim to grow into one of the leading providers 8 SITE_FOOTER We standardised our business processes and information We created reporting and monitoring channels for the systems and improved customer relationship management sustainability themes that are the most significant for our and the customer experience. In addition, we developed operations, such as the Code of Conduct, occupational safety support services and procurement, for example. and energy efficiency. Since the beginning of the strategy period, sustainability was Our new strategy shifts the focus of the development of a an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s development. united Lemminkäinen to outside Finland. Year 2013 › Strategy › The new strategy for 2014–2018 The new strategy for 2014–2018 We published our new strategy in October 2013. We will Equity ratio of at least 35 per cent focus on insightful customer solutions, especially in infrastructure construction in Northern Europe. We will also We estimate that our net sales at the end of the strategy seek profitable growth in residential development and period will be slightly higher than in 2013. construction in Russia. During the previous strategy period, we established the foundation in Scandinavia and Russia for We are aiming for a stable distribution of dividends, with at achieving these targets. least 40 per cent of the profit for the financial year distributed to shareholders. Our vision is to offer insightful solutions above the ground and underground. We aim to grow into one of the leading We have defined four strategic targets that we must achieve providers of demanding infrastructure solutions in Northern by the end of 2018. These are: Europe. This will mean an enhanced offering especially for to be the most competent company in the industry the traffic and energy industry and urban infrastructure projects. In Russia, we will extend the residential to offer the most insightful solutions development and construction business from St Petersburg to other selected urban growth centres. We will also explore to offer the best customer experience opportunities to increase our infrastructure construction to achieve the strongest profitability improvement in offering in Russia. We will examine strategic options for the industry technical building services. In order to accelerate the achievement of these targets, we Our targets for the strategy period 2014–2018 launched the first five strategic development programmes (must-win battles) in spring 2014. These phased Our financial targets are: programmes finish at the end of 2015 and guide all of our Return on investment of 18 per cent over the cycle operations. 9 SITE_FOOTER 10 SITE_FOOTER In 2014, we will concentrate especially on strengthening our Continuing efficiency measures in Scandinavia and operational efficiency, as our target is to improve our Russia profitability and equity ratio quickly. Required measures include: Improving project management in all operations Ensuring and strengthening housing sales in Finland and Russia Year 2013 › Strategy › The new strategy for 2014–2018 › A closer look: Russia offers many opportunities A closer look Maaret Heiskari, Executive Vice President, Russia maaret.heiskari@lemminkainen.com Russia offers many opportunities Russia is currently of great interest to international housing markets, where several international firms are construction business. The oil price has kept the volume of operating. According to a survey we made, we are the leader construction high and major international events have in construction quality. We want the apartments that we speeded up infrastructure projects, in particular. build to have long life-cycles. Our technical solutions are designed to improve energy efficiency, which has become Lemminkäinen is seeking profitable growth in Russia increasingly important in Russia. primarily from residential development and construction. Systematic risk management and operating Boosting housing sales environment observation Residential development and construction forms the key The most significant risks for our profitable growth in Russia segment of our Russian operations. Since 2010, we have are the volatile exchange rate of the rouble, changes in completed 986 apartments in St Petersburg and there are administration that may affect permit policy and changes in 963 apartments currently under way in central areas of the construction legislation. city. The decline of the rouble exchange rate and thus the rising There is a shortage of high-quality housing in Russia. We interest rate presents a major risk as it affects the purchasing build homes mainly for the expanding middle-class, who power of home buyers, subcontractor pricing and loan value Nordic quality, that their homes are built according to interest rates. In the worst case, unfavourable exchange rates the plans and completed on time. We are acquiring plots in may significantly slow down housing sales. We manage this areas with good transport connections and well-developed risk by aquiring plots in central locations, where demand of urban infrastructure. apartments is more stable and through our housing pricing. We have an established position in St Petersburg We have also made agreements with new banks, so that we can offer our customers a wider range of mortgage All set for growth 11 SITE_FOOTER options. 90 per cent of our costs are denominated in roubles. All set for growth A change in administration, which in turn may affect permit Lemminkäinen has set it as its goal the creation of policies, is always a factor to be considered in Russia. This approximately 20 per cent of its total net sales from Russian risk can be contained by being properly prepared and by good operations by the end of the strategy period. Our aim is to project planning. We may also speed up the completion of extend the residential development and construction projects by building in two shifts. business from St Petersburg to other selected urban growth centres. We are also focusing our resources in Russia on improved project management. We are training our project We are also exploring opportunities to increase our management personnel at different levels of the organisation infrastructure construction offering. So far, we have and follow up more systematically on the progress of each concentrated on carrying out specialist construction work as project, resulting in better predictability. a subcontractor to larger construction companies in projects such as the M4 motorway from Moscow to Sochi. We are We are also affected by changes in building legislation. In also seeking controlled profitable growth in the area of Russia, the legal obligation to support the urban infrastructure construction in selected areas. We are infrastructure often leads to a decrease in the number of our examining different operative models as well as partnership marketable housing. These obligations must be taken into options. account at the planning stage and often they can be translated into unique selling points. For example, as part of We want to expand our Russian operations to growth centres our Tapiola project, we are building a kindergarten for 60 that will be in line with our overall strategy and where we can children in addition to apartments. best utilise our comprehensive expertise. Year 2013 › Strategy › Work for the winter CASE Work for the winter The paving and mineral aggregates businesses in particular we were awarded the winter maintenance contracts for the consist of seasonal work that comes to a halt in midwinter. In cities of Kaarina, Vihti and Järvenpää as well as the 2013 in Finland, we focused on finding permanent solutions Riihikallio and Kellokoski districts of Tuusula. for levelling off seasonal fluctuations. “Outdoor area maintenance contracts are ideally round-year To minimise the effect of seasonal fluctuatuins, we increase arrangements and thus a good way to utilise our fleet in the year-round road and outdoor area maintenance as well as winter and balance the use of workforce outside the peak earthworks projects. season. During the past few years, we have successfully grown these business operations in Southern Finland,” says In 2013, we signed multi-year outdoor area contracts with Markus Kalliomaa, Senior Vice President, Paving, Southern the City of Espoo, the University of Helsinki, the Construction Finland. Establishment of the Finnish Defence Administration and the Jokela district in the city of Tuusula. These contracts offer work around the year. In addition, Year 2013 › Financial performance and targets 2013 Financial performance and targets 2013 We concentrated on operational efficiency challenging and construction activity concentrated in urban growth centres and their immediate surroundings. Our net The construction market situation in Finland remained sales in Finland decreased when compared 12 SITE_FOOTER to the previous year. Our business volume reduced most in Our business volume in infrastructure construction in building construction contracting where the margin level has Scandinavia has already reached the EUR 500 million been low in the past few years. However, the construction of milestone, but our result in 2013 was negative. In addition to underground city-centre premises increased, which kept intensified competition, our result was burdened by project demand for specialised contracting in infrastructure failures, unprofitable maintenance contracts and expense construction, one of our core businesses, at a good level. items related to internal efficiency measures, among other things. In the Scandinavian countries and Russia, the general market situation in construction was brighter than in Finland. In The decline in the Russian economy and the downward trend Sweden, Norway and Denmark, demand for infrastructure in the exchange rate of the rouble did not decrease demand construction was boosted by the investments in for comfort-class apartments in St Petersburg. The official infrastructure development made by the public sector as well permit process in St Petersburg has returned to normal, as by increasing investments in the energy supply sector. The which could also be seen as an increase in our residential growing Scandinavian infrastructure market has attracted construction activity in 2013. In the Baltic countries and plenty of construction companies from around Europe, which Russia, demand for infrastructure construction remained has intensified price competition in the industry. roughly on a par with the previous year. Net sales, operating profit and order backlog by business segment, EUR million 2013 2012 Change Net sales 2,218 2,268 ↓ International operations 931 903 ↑ Building construction 593 682 ↓ Infrastructure construction 533 537 ↓ Technical building services 222 230 ↓ Other operations and Group eliminations -61 -84 Operating profit -91 50 ↓ International operations -22 15 ↓ Building construction 5 17 ↓ Infrastructure construction 9 22 ↓ Technical building services -2 4 ↓ Corporate functions -81* -8 Operating profit without non-recurring items -5 50 ↓ Order backlog 1,821 1,444 ↑ International operations 730 575 ↑ Building construction 544 527 ↑ Infrastructure construction 459 235 ↑ Technical building services 88 108 ↓ * Includes EUR 66 million as expenses from the District Court´s decision on damages related to the asphalt cartel. DISTRIBUTION OF NET SALES BY BUSINESS IN 2013 13 SITE_FOOTER Paving, 33% Other infrastructure construction, 21% Building construction, contracting, 18% Building construction, development, 17% Technical building services, 11% Net sales by country, EUR million 14 SITE_FOOTER Net sales by country, EUR million 2013 2012 Change Finland 1,289 1,370 ↓ Scandinavia 604 570 ↑ Sweden 263 249 ↑ Norway 257 233 ↑ Denmark 84 88 ↓ Russia 164 146 ↑ Baltic countries 145 135 ↑ Estonia 67 81 ↓ Latvia 27 21 ↑ Lithuania 52 33 ↑ Other countries 15 46 ↓ Our order backlog continued to grow and, at the end of the GROWTH financial period, it was nearly EUR 400 million above the Net sales and order backlog previous year’s level. In Finland, our order backlog was Our net sales remained roughly on a par with the previous increased by specialised contracting in infrastructure year. The most significant change took place in contracting construction and in Russia and Sweden by building for building construction in Finland, the net sales of which construction. were nearly EUR 100 million lower than in the previous year. The business operations outside Finland continued to grow PROFITABILITY steadily and, in 2013, they accounted for 42 per cent (40) of Negative result our Group’s net sales. Challenges in international operations and significant oneDuring the past three years, the share of infrastructure offs made our result clearly negative in 2013. The prolonged construction has been more than 50 per cent of all of our and snowy winter delayed the start of the paving season in business operations. Currently, our single largest business particular and increased costs in all of our operating area is paving, accounting for approximately a third of our countries. We could not fully close this gap during the Group’s net sales. We are the second largest paving excellent third quarter of the year. In addition, due to the slow contractor in our market area. permit process in St Petersburg, our residential construction 15 SITE_FOOTER in Russia got off to a good start only towards the end of the management, ensuring efficiency measures especially year. outside Finland and accelerating housing sales both in Finland and in Russia. In 2013, there were also several non-recurring expense items, the largest of these being EUR 66 million for damages CASH FLOW related to the asphalt cartel and EUR 20 million of impairments mainly related to commercial properties. Positive cash flow through more efficient working Furthermore, we recorded in our result approximately EUR 16 capital management million in costs related to efficiency measures and the Despite the clearly weaker result, our 2013 cash flow was divestment of parts of the telecommunications network positive: EUR 8 million (58). Our cash flow was increased by business. efficiency measures targeted at working capital Right at the end of the year, we were forced to make margin management, for example. Our working capital decreased impairments in projects in Russia, Sweden and Norway. The and stood at EUR 325 million (427) at the end of the year. declining margins were due to failures in project and risk We have paid particular attention to the timeliness of management, two factors which we have now paid particular invoicing and the optimisation of the turnover of trade attention to. For example, we have reviewed the decisionreceivables and trade payables. making authorisations of our different organisations, increased consideration of risks at the tender calculation FINANCING phase and improved the efficiency of margin control during Our debt portfolio is centred around commercial projects. papers; we made provisions for damages Building construction in Sweden and infrastructure Our interest-bearing debt increased to EUR 408 million construction in the Baltic countries achieved better results (371). Of this, the share of short-term debt was 85 per cent. than in the previous year. In building construction in Finland, For us, the single most important debt instrument is the operational result without inventory impairments also commercial papers, accounting for more than a third of our improved year-on-year. debt portfolio. At the end of the financial period, we also had binding, unused credit limits amounting to EUR 175 million The improvement of operational efficiency is still the most (140). In 2014, we will face the refinancing of the EUR 60 important goal for us. The efficiency programme launched in million bond that will mature in the autumn. the autumn aims at lightening of the cost structure by approximately EUR 30 million in the latter half of 2014. As a In March, we agreed on a financing arrangement totalling part of the efficiency measures, we will reduce our personnel EUR 255 million and comprising two separate (EUR 185 by approximately 500 man-years. By the end of the year, the million + EUR 70 million) syndicated credit facilities. This reduction in Finland was nearly 300 man-years and in other arrangement replaced the EUR 160 million credit facility that countries approximately 100 man-years. In some of our was agreed earlier. With these arrangements and sufficient operating countries, the process is still ongoing. In addition, cash reserves, we prepared ourselves for damages related to we closed or merged 13 business units in Finland and 11 in the asphalt cartel. At the beginning of January 2014, we Norway. In 2014, efficiency measures will still be continued used our cash reserves to pay EUR 60 million in damages, in outside Finland and especially in Russia. accordance with the District Court’s decision. In addition, we made a EUR 6 million cost provision concerning claims that SOLVENCY are still waiting to be processed in the District Court. At the end of 2013, we terminated the EUR 70 million credit The negative result also had an impact on our facility, considering it unnecessary. solvency The negative result impaired our shareholders’ equity and had Our net finance costs increased and amounted to EUR 27 an impact on our solvency. In 2013, our equity ratio did not million (21). The increase in interest-bearing debt, increasing meet our long-term strategic target, standing at 27 per cent currency hedging costs and increasing financing limits (37). Our gearing increased and was 101 per cent (63). We renewed in March contributed to the increase in finance will continue improving operational efficiency; our primary costs. goal is to improve profitability and to strengthen our equity ratio. Our means for achieving this goal are improving project 16 SITE_FOOTER OUR DEBT PORTFOLIO ON 31 DECEMBER 2013 Debt maturity Commercial papers, €150 (87) million Loans from financial institutions, €41 (55) million Pension loans, €22 (44) million Finance lease liabilities, €58 (58) million Bonds, €60 (60) million Project loans, €73 (67) million Year 2013 › Financial performance and targets 2013 › A closer look: More efficient operations through systematic procurement A closer look Jouni Pekonen, Executive Vice President, Procurement jouni.pekonen@lemminkainen.com More efficient operations through systematic procurement The development of procurement plays a significant role in the improvement of efficiency and profitability of operations throughout Lemminkäinen. This requires that we operate according to common rules. 17 SITE_FOOTER In 2011, Lemminkäinen launched an efficiency programme our operations and improve their efficiency, increase the aimed at lightening our cost structure by EUR 50 million as transparency of purchases, improve the predictability of of 2014. In this goal, the share of procurement was EUR 30 operations and support the online procurement and purchase million. We achieved the procurement savings target, thanks process. to successful project purchases and competitive bidding of annual agreements. In the future, we will measure the Our supplier cooperation is based on long-term realisation of procurement savings separately for annual partnerships and active competitive bidding agreements and for project purchases. However, the A key goal is to improve supplier relationship management. procurement gains were not fully realised in the company’s result due to intensified competition. Long-term cooperation with selected partners enables both parties to benefit from greater cost-effectiveness and Lemminkäinen’s extensive partner network and decentralised economies of scale. procurement have posed challenges. The starting points in We select all our contract partners and project suppliers the development of procurement have been the establishment of standardised working methods and the through competitive bidding. We actively monitor our suppliers’ performance, such as delivery reliability and the improvement of supplier relationship management. These number of reclamations. We primarily audit our suppliers enable us to improve the efficiency of our procurement and purchase processes and to harness economies of scale and when we want to ensure the performance of a potential major supplier or when we want to identify areas for development the benefits of centralisation. with our current suppliers. We take advantage of procurement synergy We require that all of our suppliers and partners adhere to potential legislation, international regulations concerning human The aim is that in future we will be able to take even greater rights, employment rights and the environment as well as our advantage of our size and total volume in procurement. This Code of Conduct. We require our subcontractors to adhere to requires that we continuously develop cooperation between the Act on the Contractor’s Obligations and Liability When the centralised procurement unit and businesses across Work Is Contracted Out, and we monitor how all new and country borders, too. Currently, the extent to which we use existing operators comply with it. foreign suppliers is very limited. Over the long term, our goal A significant part of the improvement of supplier relationship is to significantly increase both our volume of global sourcing management is the reduction in the number of suppliers. We and number of direct suppliers. aim to reduce our suppliers to about 5,000 over the coming During 2013, we carried out several successful pilot projects years. In 2013, we trimmed our network of over 17,500 in which we analysed potential suppliers outside Finland for suppliers by about 3,000. project purchases. In addition, we tighten cooperation in procurement with our key operating countries . Clear interal work distribution In our operations in Finland, the centralised procurement unit is responsible for annual agreements and the business segments for project purchases. In 2013, we also started scrutinising common working methods in our other operating countries. In addition, we develop common working methods, purchase and procurement tools and indicators. They will increase the efficiency and transparency of our operations and improve our supplier relationship management. One of our most significant goals for 2014 is the implementation of a common ERP system throughout our procurement organisation. The system will harmonise 18 SITE_FOOTER Year 2013 › Operating environment Operating environment Geographical BUSINESS area SEGMENT GROWTH DRIVERS OUTLOOK FOR THE NEAR FUTURE COMPETITIVE FIELD FINLAND BUILDING Urban growth centre development A weak market situation in new construction 5–7 major players in new CONSTRUCoutside urban growth centres construction. TION Ageing building stock No major changes in the number of units started The renovation sector is Solutions that improve energy fragmented. efficiency Uncertainty associated with economy and funding slows down commercial construction Migration and population growth Growth in renovation continues INFRAUrban growth centre development Growth in infrastructure construction 5–7 major players in STRUCTURE postponed to 2015 infrastructure construction. CONSTRUCGrowth in repair debt TION Demand is reduced by slow economic growth, An increased number of Construction related to energy challenges in public and municipal sector finanforeign players. production and energy networks ces and the decline in building construction Ongoing large-scale projects and development projects in city centres are boosting demand for specialised contracting TECHNICAL Growth in renovation in building Demand for upkeep and maintenance is at a Contracting in technical BUILDING construction good level building services is highly SERVICES fragmented. Increased energy efficiency reThe market situation in contracting weak due to quirements and stricter regulations declining new construction; increasing The three largest players renovation is compensating have a market share of less Outsourcing and centralisation in the than 20 per cent. upkeep and maintenance in technical building services Significantly fewer players in upkeep and maintenance. SCANDIINFRAMulti-year national investment Infrastructure construction continues to grow The five largest players in NAVIA STRUCTURE programmes steadily in all countries paving have a market share CONSTRUCof about 80 per cent. TION Basic renovation and new investments required in the energy supply sector The number of Central and Eastern European players is Road and rail networks around and increasing. connecting urban growth centres require modernisation and basic improvements RUSSIA RESIDENTIAL A wealthier middle class, increased The long-term need for new housing is high Three Nordic players in CONSTRUCpurchasing power residential construction in TION Construction activity is at a good level, growth addition to several local (COMFORT Increased demands with regard to is expected to continue in the near future players. CLASS, ST living space and comfort PETERSBURG) Demand and supplier quality Mortgage market development varies a lot. INFRAMajor projects between urban growth The volume of infrastructure construction may Mainly local players in the STRUCTURE centres increase significantly if the State implements market. CONSTRUCits planned programme to develop road and rail TION Weak traffic infrastructure networks The introduction of new technology gives foreign A multi-year State investment plan to players a competitive edge. improve the highway network Upcoming major sports events BALTIC INFRALimited road networks and traffic Infrastructure construction trends in the near Infrastructure construction COUNTRIES STRUCTURE network in poor condition future will depend on the countries’ economic market shares are divided CONSTRUCsituation and the availability of funding. among several players, many TION EU funding local players. Growth potential particularly in road and rail The potential launch of the Rail construction as well as in construction related Baltica traffic project to energy production. 19 SITE_FOOTER Business › Travelling Increasing traffic flows demand functional infrastructure As one of the major infrastructure construction companies in Northern Europe, we offer comprehensive services — from the construction of road, street and rail networks to basic paving maintenance and specialised contracting in infrastructure construction. Although infrastructure construction has declined in Finland In addition, we completed the construction of an over several years, our order backlog and market share have underground parking facility in the Tapiola district of Espoo, developed favourably. In the future, we will pursue growth in Finland, in summer 2013. As part of this project, we more strongly in other Nordic countries where the renovated the above-ground car park in Tapionaukio in infrastructure market is growing. Our most important accordance with architect Aarne Ervi’s original design. customers are public sector clients as well as other construction companies, industry and property owners. Working in city centres comes with a great number of requirements to ensure that the construction site causes In line with our new strategy, we aim to grow into one of the minimal disturbance to the surrounding life. We develop our leading providers of demanding infrastructure solutions in know-how and working methods in order to minimise the Northern Europe. harmful environmental effects of dust, vibration and noise caused by the construction site. We also pay attention to the A specialist in demanding infrastructure planning and control of construction site traffic so that construction trucks disrupt other traffic as little as possible. We provide residents and companies with information on the progress of Our most significant project in 2013 was the agreement for construction. the alliance contract for the Rantaväylä tunnel in Tampere, in central Finland, together with A-Insinöörit Design and Saanio We also offer services for energy infrastructure construction. & Riekkola Oy. When completed, the Rantaväylä tunnel will In summer 2013, we started the renovation of an old dam make the Tampere city centre more pleasant and attract new and a power plant in Tisleifjord, Norway. We also continued businesses by improving traffic arrangements in the area and the repair work at the Bergeforsen hydro-electric power plant rationalising land use. In the contract, a part of Rantaväylä in Sweden. The construction of a new spillage route will road will be re-aligned into a tunnel, which will alleviate increase the power plant’s current production capacity. traffic jams and free up land by lake Näsijärvi for residential construction. The agreement was preceded by one year of A road network builder and repairer planning in which our alliance developed a project We manufacture approximately six million tonnes of asphalt implementation solution within the limits of the budget. each year, about 40% of this in Finland. We are the market Planning cooperation generated significant cost savings as leader in Finland, and our network covers the entire country. well as solutions that will accelerate work. Joint development In 2012, we combined the paving, earthworks and mineral will also be continued in the implementation phase. aggregates business organisations. During the reporting year, Construction started in October 2013 and will continue until we received extremely positive feedback on this approach the end of 2017. that makes it easier for our customers to work with us. We continued the development of the city centre in Oulu, in We won several bridge renovation contracts, especially in the northern Finland, where we are building Kivisydän, an Helsinki metropolitan area and in the Oulu region, in northern approximately 900-space parking facility. In connection with Finland. In these projects, our strength is our competent the underground parking facility, there are maintenance personnel: they enable us to allocate resources to sites so premises for other city centre properties. The logistics for that work flows smoothly. We have developed various these properties can be handled through the underground techniques making work easier and allowing projects to be premises, thereby alleviating the above-ground completed faster. In December 2013, we started the transportation. The Kivisydän project has accelerated the construction of the Turvesolmu graded interchange development of the whole city centre in Oulu. 20 SITE_FOOTER and the Turveradantie street in Espoo. We are establishing a paving business development programme that covers all of our operating countries. We In Norway, approximately 30% of our net sales in paving want to provide our customers with the highest quality of came from state-funded projects. In addition, we started service in the industry. Our strengths include long experience, paving and renovation work at the Andøya airbase in northern highly competent personnel and equipment expertise. Our Norway for the company in charge of Norwegian Armed goal is to improve the operational efficiency and the sharing Forces’ properties. We also participated in several other of best practices across borders. We believe that this also airport contracting projects. helps us to better manage the seasonal fluctuations that are typical of the industry. In Sweden, our paving business concentrated especially on central and northern Sweden. We introduced a solution that enables us to improve the quality of road repair. We use a We offer public transport solutions technique in which the surface of the road is broken by using In 2013, we won two new contracts in the West Metro a stabilisation method, and then reinforced and paved. This project in the Helsinki metropolitan area: the construction of extends the road’s service life more than the mere renewal of the Tapiola and Matinkylä metro stations. Both of these paving and thus reduces lifecycle costs. This is particularly stations are key traffic hubs, with 20,000–30,000 suitable for sections of road with heavy goods traffic but low passengers expected to travel through them every day. In the traffic volumes. Thanks to the new solution, we won several construction of metro stations, we make use of our strong road network renovation contracts. and versatile expertise in foundation and civil engineering. We also participated in the excavation work for the West In the Baltic countries, we expanded our service offering from Metro track and service tunnels at the Ruoholahti, Koivusaari paving and road construction to specialised foundation and Urheilupuisto stations. engineering. For example, we started container terminal expansion contracts in Estonia and Lithuania. In addition, we In April 2013, we started two projects associated with the renovated sections of roads. In Russia, we received yet Ring Rail Line project in the Helsinki metropolitan area: another paving contract for the M4 highway that connects interior construction work for a section of tunnel and the Moscow and Sochi. construction of a station reservation for the Viinikkala station. During the summer, we replaced the Vantaankoski In Denmark, we started paving the new highway being built line’s superstructure between Kannelmäki and Myyrmäki. around the city of Silkeborg. As part of the contract, we innovated a working method that makes it possible to spread a larger amount of asphalt at one go. This sped up our work while also improving quality. Business › Travelling › A closer look: More expertise A closer look Harri Kailasalo,Executive Vice President, infrastructure construction harri.kailasalo@lemminkainen.com More expertise! New approaches are sorely needed in order to catch up with the increasing repair backlog of the Finnish traffic network. No compromises can be made with regard to expertise.. 21 SITE_FOOTER TThe deterioration of the Finnish traffic network is For a good example of updated operating models, we can accelerating. We have to invest in its development and look to Sweden, where project expertise in public maintenance even though the public sector is now under administration is strong and resources are sufficient. In enormous pressure to cut costs. Sweden, it has been empirically shown that in projects in which the design work is included in the contract, i.e. the Before, Finland’s excellent infrastructure used to attract contractor is allowed to innovate, the total costs are reduced investments. Are we now facing the danger that our by 10–15% on average. Our own findings from the alliance neighbours, who are putting a lot of money into the contract for the Rantaväylä tunnel in Tampere are similar. development of their infrastructure, will beat us in the Good planning and co-operation allowed us to come up with international competition for investors? savings of almost 20% in the Tampere project. Solutions for the sustainability gap, savings and One solution could be to merge the technical departments of improvement of national competence must be sought in new small municipalities into larger organisations. In this way, operating models—and quickly. The worse the traffic network even smaller locations could provide interesting positions for is allowed to become, the more laborious and expensive professionals and, consequently, project expertise in the repairing it will be. By developing design solutions and public sector could be strengthened throughout Finland. optimising the quality level, we can achieve significantly more with the same amount of money. One way of releasing funds for planning and execution is to outsource municipalities’ technical services production to To find such innovative solutions, new kinds of expertise will commercial operators. In my opinion, municipal resources are be required from both us as service providers and our far better spent finding new solutions for infrastructure customers. projects than carrying out road works, for example. Innovation curbed by shortage of expertise, not Service providers must rise to the challenge legislation In Finland, large projects have been carried out successfully The success of a construction project often depends on how and, on the whole, the quality of infrastructure construction well the targets of the project are defined. All is well if the is considered good. So, we do have expertise but the problem client knows exactly what it wants, orders designs is that as service providers we are not fully utilising it. When accordingly and decides on changes when and if the need a customer gives us an opportunity to come up with a novel arises. Optimally, the client and the service provider together approach or versatile solution, we must rise to the challenge. search for solutions which best meet the goals set for costs, quality and user satisfaction. Instead of talking about how money is scarce, we must offer new insights and operating models. We must strengthen our The legislation on public contracts, which some people say expertise in order to develop Finland’s infrastructure and the curbs public works, provides us with an opportunity to carry construction industry as a whole. out infrastructure projects in an economical and innovative way. However, we cannot have new solutions without new My ideal project is one in which the client sets the budget kinds of expertise, both on the client and service provider and explains in broad terms what the basic requirements are. side. It is nearly impossible for an outsourced consultant to Service providers can together find a solution which results in determine the other party’s intention or vision with sufficient improved functionality and satisfied end users. I believe this clarity if their own expertise is lacking. would be profitable for all parties concerned. Novel approaches are required At the moment, construction expertise and resources in Finnish public administration have been run down through efficiency programmes. The situation is particularly difficult in small municipalities and towns, which are seldom in a position to provide professionals with job opportunities that are interesting enough. To exaggerate a bit, the same person working for the technical department should also hoist the flag at a school and master EU-compliant procurement provisions. 22 SITE_FOOTER 23 SITE_FOOTER Business › Travelling › Metro stations in Matinkylä and Tapiola CASE Metro stations in Matinkylä and Tapiola Lemminkäinen is in charge of building the busiest stations on day. The shopping centre above the metro station can be the West Metro line. Approximately 20,000–30,000 easily accessed from the station. New commercial premises, passengers are expected to travel through the Matinkylä and apartments and parking facilities will be built and old ones Tapiola stations every day. will be modernised. In 2013, we started the construction of the Matinkylä and “In the extensive Tapiola metro station project, we will build Tapiola stations, the West Metro stations with the highest the metro station located directly below the shopping centre number of passengers, in Espoo. The estimate is that more as well as a track tunnel, a cable tower, technical facilities than 30,000 passengers will travel daily through the under Merituulentie, pressure equalisation shafts and a Matinkylä station, the final station in the first phase of the water-tight barrier wall,” Noutia adds. West Metro. According to forecasts, the station will be the busiest of the entire West Metro, a traffic hub where a new The construction of busy metro stations in an urban centre bus terminal and more parking space will also be built. At the creates a construction site that requires versatile foundation same time, the shopping centre Iso Omena will be expanded. and civil engineering expertise and where management of entities and coordination of different work phases play an “In Matinkylä, we will build not only the station building but important role. People live and work next to both sites so also a maintenance tunnel, two parallel track tunnels of particular attention must be paid to safety, and in Matinkylä approximately 700 metres and two shafts. Furthermore, we also to the smooth flow of traffic. will build the driving and bridge structures that lead from Suomenlahdentie to the metro station. For example, we will The station contracts began in 2013 and are estimated to carry out bridge and concrete construction tasks as well as continue until late 2015. Lemminkäinen has been involved in finishing of surfaces and structures,” says Vesa Noutia, building the West Metro right from the beginning. The Construction Manager at Lemminkäinen. blasting and quarrying contract for the Koivusaari metro tunnel and station, which started in 2011, was completed in The centre of Tapiola will also develop in the slipstream of November 2013. The blasting and quarrying contract for the the metro. Approximately 20,000 passengers are expected Urheilupuisto metro tunnel and station, which began in to travel through Tapiola station every 2012, also continued throughout 2013. Business › Travelling › The Rantaväylä tunnel will boost Tampere’s vitality CASE The Rantaväylä tunnel will boost Tampere’s vitality A 4-kilometre section of the Rantaväylä road in Tampere in The new Rantaväylä tunnel will free up valuable plots by lake central Finland will be re-aligned, and the longest road tunnel Näsijärvi, enabling the construction of apartments for in Finland will be excavated along the route. The project will approximately 3,600 residents. It will improve the flow of contribute to the development of Tampere city centre and traffic and reduce the environmental hazards cause by improve the flow and safety of traffic. traffic. At the same time, lakeside areas will become available for recreational use. Tampere’s Rantaväylä is the main artery for traffic flow in the city. In the autumn 2013, it became the site for a The enormous project will be carried out by an alliance construction project that re-aligns a 4.3-kilometre section of formed by Lemminkäinen, the City of Tampere, the Finnish the road. In addition, a 2.3-kilometre road tunnel and the Transport Agency, the engineering office Saanio & Riekkola related graded interchanges and road arrangements will be Oy and A-Insinöörit Suunnittelu Oy. built on Rantaväylä. 24 SITE_FOOTER This alliance is a pioneering project implementation model in the disturbance caused by the construction site, create cost Finland. In this model, the customer and the service providers savings and accelerate processes. Innovation will be design and implement the project together, as a joint continued throughout the entire project. organisation. The parties share the risks and opportunities associated with the project and follow the principles of open The Rantaväylä tunnel project is divided into two separate information while working in close cooperation. phases. The project’s development phase took place in 2012–2013 and the implementation phase began in October Innovation plays a key role in an alliance-based contract. 2013. The tunnel will be opened to traffic in 2017. Through jointly created innovations we will be able to reduce Business › Travelling › Improving dam safety in leaps and bounds CASE Improving dam safety in leaps and bounds We have constructed a new spillage route for Bergeforsen tank built next to a residential area demanded strong knowKraft AB’s hydro-electric power plant in Timrå, Sweden. The how. new route increases spillage capacity and significantly improves the dam safety of the power plant reservoir. The majority of hydro-electric power plants in Sweden were built before the 1960s. Revised safety regulations and The construction project encompasses temporary preparations for climate change have increased a need for cofferdams, concrete structures for the gate systems, open making major improvements to them. The goal is to clearly pit excavation for the surge tank and a railway underpass improve their safety level. The Bergeforsen power plant is which was used throughout the project. owned by Vattenfall AB and Eon Vattenkraft Sverige AB. Heavy concrete structures, special excavation, mass hauling Construction started in summer 2011 and the entire project and landscaping required versatile expertise in engineering will be completed in spring 2014. The gates were installed in and practical execution as well as coordination of different August 2013. aspects. In addition, the construction of cofferdams that resists high water pressure and the 50-metre deep surge Business › Travelling › Norwegian airport project – good co-ordination is a key factor CASE Norwegian airport project – good co-ordination is a key factor From the moment the first asphalt was milled on August Andøya air base continues to be fully operational throughout 2013, the runway renovation project at the Andøya air base this renovation project, with commercial traffic from both has run according to schedule; in fact, work has stayed ahead Norwegian and Widerøe, and traffic connected to the of the plan. Good organisation and project co-ordination have Norwegian Armed Forces. been key factors. “We have completed Phase 1 in accordance with the initial The project is about groundwork as much as paving. It plan and without affecting air traffic,” states includes the milling and repaving of the 3,000-metre-long Lemminkäinen’s project manager Stian Andreassen. and 45-metre-wide runway. In addition, the runway will be widened, and its technical facilities, lighting and rainwater Andreassen stresses the importance of clear organisation gullies moved. The contract also includes the repair of the and hands-on co-ordination at all stages of the work. “We airport's concrete deck and the partial repavement of the have meetings with the builder every other day. In addition, parking area. we have construction meetings every fortnight, and are in close touch with the Air Wing unit and the commercial users.” 25 SITE_FOOTER “We have invited the land developer’s site supervisor in our “By the time we complete the project in November 2014, we administration team. This means that we have cut out an will have used approximately 44 000 tonnes of asphalt in intermediary, making for much closer co-ordination,” notes paving the runway,” says Andreassen. Andreassen. Safety is given great importance. “We are very preoccupied with all employees and sub-contractors operating safely and properly on our sites. ,” says Andreassen. Business › Travelling › Renovating bridges amid busy traffic CASE Renovating bridges amid busy traffic The majority of the Finnish bridges built in the 1960s or the is being renovated, it always affects the traffic in the entire 1970s have reached the age when renovation is needed. This area. It is in the best interests of the residents, the developer will require a major renovation effort that is made more and us that sites like this are repaired at one go. We certainly urgent by the decree entered into force in October 2013 that don’t want to return there to disturb the traffic again,” Laru allows larger and heavier trucks to drive on Finnish roads. comments, referring to the contract completed in December. Logistically efficient routes that also enable the smooth flow of traffic must be repaired quickly for these new “super “In the railway project between Kannelmäki and Myyrmäki, trucks”. the schedule was tight, too, as a brisk pace of construction is the best way to reduce the disturbance caused to traffic. In In 2013, Lemminkäinen renovated 12 bridges in the Helsinki two months, we renovated two railway bridges and five metropolitan area: three in the Lauttasaari district of Helsinki, pedestrian and bicycle underpasses. We stayed on schedule; the Ruoholahti bridge over the Mechelininkatu street, a bridge in fact, the contract was completed early,” says Laru. on the Vihdintie road and the railway bridges and underpasses on the railway between Kannelmäki and “We have a seamless, competent and committed bridge Myyrmäki. renovation crew that can take care of bridge renovation contracts around Finland,” Laru says. “In practice, a bridge’s actual need for repair can be determined only after work is started, so communicating with In 2014, we will continue work on the renovation contract of the customer is crucial. We need to communicate changes the Lauttasaari bridge. We agreed with the customer to immediately and plans must be made for how, in the light of postpone until spring 2014 the renovation of one bridge in the new information, the renovation can be carried out with order to minimise the disturbance to the traffic in the high quality and cost efficiency,” says Jani Laru, supervisor surrounding area. In late 2013, we started the construction of at Lemminkäinen. the Turvesolmu graded interchange and the Turveradantie street in the Mankkaa district of Espoo. In addition to six new The planning of traffic arrangements is particularly bridges, the contract covers major earthworks and civil important, especially in the Helsinki metropolitan area. For engineering work. Work at Turvesolmu will continue until example, the Ruoholahti bridge is crossed by 30,000– 2015. 40,000 vehicles daily, it is located in one of the most significant motor traffic hubs in Finland. “When a site Business › Living Cosy living in central locations In Finland, we focus on residential construction in urban growth centres. In Russia, we are exploring opportunities to expand our residential construction to include other cities in addition to St Petersburg. 26 SITE_FOOTER In 2013, we launched the construction of 1,815 (1,019) new, apartment block in the Rakka area in Rovaniemi and the residential development units. We offer residences for second apartment block in the Louhi area in Oulu, in consumers and for residential and other property investors in September 2013. Both areas are located near the city centre Finland and Russia. and our focus has been particularly on comfort, accessibility and low living costs. We focus on urban growth centres In the autumn, we started the development of the Lehtoniemi We have a broad range of plots that enables the rapid launch area in Kuopio. In 2013–2015, we will build 79 ownerof new projects in the coming years, if necessary. Most of our occupied apartments and one property consisting of rental plots are located in urban growth centres in Finland and in St apartments. The area is located near outdoor recreation Petersburg. Our presence in urban growth centres in Finland areas, which makes living there even more comfortable. and our long-term local expertise help us find interesting plots for our new residential projects. Interest in Finnish construction in Russia We primarily acquire plots that are located either in the city In 2013, we started new residential project in St Petersburg. centre or near it in an area with good traffic connections. For The first phase of the Tapiola project consists the example, in the Helsinki metropolitan area, we seek to acquire construction of 339 apartments along the Obvodny canal plots where our residential properties are located within near Moskovsky Prospekt. We also continued the walking distance to commuter or light rail stops. construction of the 470-apartment Aino apartment block on Vasilyevsky Island. Versatile housing production In the St Petersburg market, being Finnish is one of the key In 2013, we continued to develop the Jätkäsaari area in differentiators. Our primary target group is the increasingly Helsinki. This new residential area near the Baltic Sea and wealthy Russian middle class that appreciates Finnish the centre of Helsinki has raised a lot of interest among. By reliability, quality and functional floor plans. For our 2016, we will have built approximately 430 apartments in customers, this means energy efficiency, high-quality sound the area. Currently, we are the only builder offering ownerand water insulation as well as modern automation systems. occupied apartments in the area. At the end of the reporting Our residential construction has been of interest to property year, we won a new plot from the City of Helsinki in an investors, too. architectural competition. In the coming years, we will build low-rise apartment blocks on the plot. In order to improve our service, we have negotiated on financial arrangements with several local banks to improve We are also building apartments in the centre of Helsinki, in the availability of mortgages to our customers. The the Töölö Bay area. This central location will feature a unique apartment under construction can be used as a security of combination of apartments, services and commercial the mortgage. premises. The residents of the first property moved into their new homes in February 2013, and the second property will be We also operate as a contractor in Russia. In 2013, we completed in spring 2014. Many people have been interested expanded our operation to the Moscow region as we signed in the chance to live in a green central location in the heart of an agreement with the Russian company OOO Mikrorayon the city. Kantri on the construction of a 46-house residential area in the city of Istra near Moscow. The masterplanning, design In spring 2013, we started the renovation, restoration and and construction of the area will emphasise Nordic comfort conversion into apartments of the Asunto Oy Helsingin of living, energy efficiency and quality. We will also construct Kivipalatsi premises in the centre of Helsinki. The renovation the infrastructure, road network and landscaping in the area. of this partly protected building is being carried out in In addition, we are building an elite residential building for cooperation with the Helsinki City Museum. In April 2014, a Tetra Invest in Kamennyi Ostrov, St Petersburg. total of 28 new apartments will be completed in Kivipalatsi. We believe that the conversion of old commercial premises Personalised service into residential use will increase in the future, especially in the fully built-up city centres. We have our own housing sales organisation in Finland and Russia. Working in cooperation with the housing sales We continued regional development in northern Finland by organisation, our alteration engineers help our customers to starting the construction of the fifth and final find the desired space solutions and surface 27 SITE_FOOTER materials in their new home. At the same time, our customers to their home. Our goal is to have this option available in each constantly receive up-to-date information about the progress of our major apartment block projects in Finland. of the construction process. In addition, our customers may use the online Nettikoti tool to manage the alterations Business › Living › A closer look: Building quality A closer look Casimir Lindholm, Executive Vice President, Building Construction casimir.lindholm@lemminkainen.com Building quality Purchasing an apartment is one of the largest personal investments people make, and consequently it entails a lot of emotions. The significance of quality is emphasised when one is looking for a home in a new residential property. When one buys a new apartment, it must be absolutely faultless. We want to provide our customers with safe, healthy and The final experienced quality is sealed by customer service. In functional homes that are handed over in impeccable 2013, the implementation of Nettikoti, a web-based condition. In 2013, we reinforced the importance of quality additional work and alteration service, was one of our key assurance in our management system. quality assurance measures. Nettikoti helps us to expand and diversify our customer service alongside the provision of Quality assurance is an integral part of our entire personal service. In addition, Nettikoti makes for a smoother construction process. In Lemminkäinen’s residential flow of information between the customer, the sales development and construction, quality assurance starts with personnel and the construction site. In 2014, we will further the plot acquisition. We want that the apartments we build expand the use of this service in Finland. are in what the buyers consider the best locations in urban growth centres. One cannot overemphasise the significance We will continue our determined quality assurance work in of location as the foundation of the quality experienced by the coming years, too. In 2014, quality will be one of our key the customer. performance indicators. In the planning phase, quality assurance ensures the desired outcome in terms of the apartment’s functional and technical quality. In the construction phase, quality assurance culminates in a successful pre-handover inspection. During the past year, we have harmonised and fine-tuned the scheduling of the pre-handover inspection process as well as the way it is done. In the pre-handover inspection, the apartment is always inspected from an outsider’s perspective by one of our employees from another construction site. By fine-tuning the process, we want to ensure customer satisfaction and achieve cost savings. 28 SITE_FOOTER Business › Living › Restoring a prestigious premises to its former glory CASE Restoring a prestigious premises to its former glory We are building new apartments in Kivipalatsi, a building without disturbing those in the immediate vicinity, forms part completed in 1896 and located on Lönnrotinkatu, right in the of our core expertise,” says Kalevi Stenman, head of heart of Helsinki. The renovation of old buildings is a renovation atLemminkäinen. responsible manner to revitalise city centres. In this project, we are modernising Kivipalatsi and restoring New plots in city centres are rarely, if ever, available. its old details with the greatest respect for the original look. Consequently, there is great demand for renovation in which The renovation includes work on the roof, repairs to existing properties are renewed so that their space solutions intermediate floors, structural improvements, and the and technical aspects meet modern needs. At the same time, renewal of insulation and interior surfaces. New structural the use of properties can be altered. solutions will improve the building’s fire safety and sound proofing. The property’s electrical, telecommunications, pipe, Kivipalatsi was constructed as a residential building on ventilation and control systems will be completely renewed. Lönnrotinkatu in 1896. As the years have gone by, the premises have been altered for use as both office and The height of the attic will be increased. We will build also commercial space. We are now participating in returning five roof terraces, skylights and balconies for the apartments. these premises, designed and developed by architect In addition, we will renew the existing elevators and construct Florentin Granholm, to their original use and restoring them an entirely new elevator shaft to house a third elevator. to their former glory. In April 2014, a total of 28 new apartments will be completed in the renovated Asunto Oy The building is partly protected, and renovations are being Helsingin Kivipalatsi’s property. carried out in cooperation with the Helsinki City Museum. The property’s owner and developer is Rakennus Oy “We have specialised in carrying out renovations to Kivipalatsi, which is owned by Ahlström Capital Oy and HGR prestigious historic buildings, often located in city centres. Property Partners Oy. Working in city centres, in busy and built-up environments, Business › Living › Joining forces for a better urban infrastructure CASE Joining forces for a better urban infrastructure In Russia, both the authorities and construction companies sold separately, as well as 360 underground parking spaces. contribute to the development of the urban infrastructure. In Furthermore, we will design and build a kindergarten in the St. Petersburg city centre, we are building not only area. In September 2013, we signed an agreement with the apartments but also a kindergarten. City of St. Petersburg, providing them with the kindergarten premises for free. In summer 2013, we started the construction of 757 apartments in the centre of St. Petersburg. The project is “These types of services increase the area's vitality, so they called Tapiola and it is located by the Obvodny canal close to can be developed together by the authorities and business Moskovsky Prospekt. life,” comments Vice President Juha Vättö at Lemminkäinen. Tapiola is one of our residential development and The first 339 apartments should be completed by the end of construction projects in which we are responsible for the 2014, and the entire area is scheduled for completion by the design, construction and sales. In addition to apartments, the end of 2015. plot will accommodate approximately 4,000 square metres of office and commercial premises, which will be The new kindergarten will accommodate 79 children. 29 SITE_FOOTER The kindergarten and its playground will be opened at the In future, we will continue to seek solutions that promote the beginning of 2016 when all the apartments in the area have development of the urban infrastructure and support our been completed. housing sales. Business › Living › Nature and the city meet in Jätkäsaari CASE Nature and the city meet in Jätkäsaari A new residential area for 17,000 inhabitants will be floor plans are flexible. All homes have radiant floor heating, constructed at the southern tip of Helsinki. Be built on the balconies with glazing and a district cooling system for site of a former freight harbour, Jätkäsaari will be an integral cooling down the apartments in the summertime, among part of downtown Helsinki. We will build four housing other features. Courtyards will be built to be garden-like and cooperatives in the Saukonpaasi area in the north-western spacious. Part of the parking spaces of the housing part of Jätkäsaari. cooperatives will be in a parking facility that will be built under a deck in the yard. Saukonpaasi is in a unique location near the city centre and the sea. Our new apartments will offer urban homes in the Waste management in the area is based on a modern pipe best location of the capital city for people who appreciate collection system. The residents will take their sorted waste nature, quality and active lifestyle. Various services and to the housing cooperative’s collection point from where recreational facilities are within walking distance. In the waste will be transferred through an underground pipe to a centre of the area, there will be a 2.5-kilometre park ending collection station located outside the area. The system will at a beach. In addition, a marina will be built next to the make yard areas more pleasant and safe, eliminating the residential blocks. need for traditional waste containers and for garbage trucks accessing the area. The floor plans of the new apartments are designed to be flexible, making them equally suitable for singles, couples In 2013, we started the construction of the first of our and families and also as corporate housing for high flying apartment complexes, Asunto Oy Saukonpaaden Merituuli, employees. which will be completed in 2014. The rest of our apartment complexes, Asunto Oy Helsingin Ruori, Kompassi and Loisto, The apartments will have a great deal of details that increase will be completed by 2016. their living comfort. They will be fully equipped and their Business › Living › Comfortable living in the vicinity of a metropolis CASE Comfortable living in the vicinity of a metropolis In addition to being a housing developer, we also operate as a Our cooperation with Bank ZENIT started in 2004 in Kazan building contractor in Russia. In January 2013, a Russian when we built an ice-hockey arena, which is one of the first investment company OOO “Mikrorayon Kantri” invited us and arenas in Russia to meet international quality standards. The Bank ZENIT to discuss an interesting housing development project was financed by Bank ZENIT. ”The bank was project. Subsequently, we decided to take part in the SAMPO satisfied with our cooperation. On the basis of that project in the capacity of main contractor. Our decision was experience, both parties felt confident about entering into a largely based on the talks with Bank ZENIT, which is new contract,” says Maaret Heiskari, Lemminkäinen’s financing the project. The project includes the planning and Executive Vice President, Russia. “I believe that our good construction of a complex of 46 detached or semi-detached cooperation also guarantees that the project will progress as houses with associated social and administrative facilities. planned and the new residents can move in as scheduled.” 30 SITE_FOOTER According to Stanislav Pashchenko, Deputy Chairman of and the quality of their housing projects, we expect that this Bank ZENIT’s Management Board, ”Our customer recognised project will also be a success.” in the project an opportunity to build high-quality detached or semi-detached houses. The goal is to produce international We will build 46 three-storey detached or semi-detached quality in a cost-efficient manner. At the bank, we houses as well as a kindergarten and an administrative understood that, in addition to the conventional financial building in a new and popular neighbourhood in Istra. We are risks involved in the investment, there are also risks also responsible for the the design of the houses. The associated with the main contractor. Therefore, we said that housings will be primarily marketed to the middle class who we will arrange the financing on the condition that we have a hold Nordic comfort of living, energy efficiency and quality in say in the selection of the main contractor. The bidding high regard. process produced no result — none of the participants In cooperation with the customer, we will also construct the offered a solution that met our requirements. Then we infrastructure and road network for the area and carry out remembered Lemminkäinen, which is one of the leading landscaping for an area of 29 hectares. The project is companies in its field in Northern Europe, and we suggested expected to be completed in autumn 2016. The total value of that Mikrorayon Kantri initiate negotiations with them. On the contract is over EUR 100 million. the basis of Lemminkäinen’s experience Business › Working Solutions for a comfortable working environment We build commercial properties in Finland and Russia. In addition, we modernise existing premises to meet the current needs of working life. Technical building solutions enable us to improve the comfort level of properties. We want to provide our customers with comfortable working The consortium we formed with Skanska, Freeway, started environments. There are many factors that impact the the construction of the S Group’s new logistics centre for comfort level of premises: modifiable space solutions, good daily consumer goods in Sipoo, in southern Finland, in June. indoor air, high-quality lighting and excellent traffic At the moment, the logistics centre is one of the largest connections. construction projects in Finland. In its planning and execution, special attention is being paid to environmental Versatile commercial premises aspects. In 2013, only a few commercial construction projects were We are a strong partner for Finnish companies in Russia, too. launched outside the Helsinki metropolitan area in Finland. We have solid experience in the construction of production An exception was the border district in eastern Finland. For facilities, for example. During the year, we started the example, there is a lot of construction activity in construction of a new paint factory for Teknos in St Lappeenranta. In 2013, we built a 4,000 square metre Petersburg. In autumn 2013, we completed the first phase of commercial premises for Disa’s Fish in Nuijamaa, among Paroc’s new production facility in Tver, northwest of other projects. Moscow. We also completed the construction of the Our largest commercial construction project in 2013 was the additional building for Technopolis in St Petersburg. The three-block construction site in Töölönlahti in the centre of building complies with the LEED certification criteria. Helsinki that we started in 2011. All of these new office premises will comply with the criteria of the international We also modernise old premises LEED environmental certification programme. Certificates We have extensive expertise and a lengthy track record in the will be applied after the projects are completed. During the renovation projects of old properties. Our goal is to carry out construction phase, we are paying particular attention to the the projects with minimal disruption to the daily life in the planning of work so that the construction site does not property’s surroundings. disrupt the heavy traffic flows in the city centre. Towards the end of 2013, we were selected to renovate 31 SITE_FOOTER the University of Helsinki-owned Aleksi7 property in the We also continued the Kastelli community centre project in centre of Helsinki. The project will continue until the end of Oulu, started in 2012. Kastelli will house a day-care centre, 2014. Once completed, the property will offer new and morning and afternoon care, a comprehensive school, upper comfortable premises for the Finnish Ministry of the secondary schools for young people and adults, a library, a Environment. youth centre, an auditorium and extensive exercise facilities. The centre will include facilities for approximately 1,500 The renovation of Stora Enso’s head office in Helsinki was children and young people. The construction project is completed in April 2013. We refurbished the culturalscheduled for completion in 2014, after which we will be in historically valuable interior, designed by Alvar Aalto, in three charge of the property’s upkeep and maintenance for the next phases so that daily work at the head office could be 25 years. continued throughout the renovation project. In the centre of Tapiola in Espoo, Finland, Kiinteistö Oy Biens’ commercial Technical building solutions help you save energy building was completed, and the Ainoa shopping centre opened its doors in October. Ainoa is part of the development Appropriately designed and properly maintained technical project of the centre of Tapiola, which aims to preserve building systems allow us to improve the conditions and Tapiola’s status as a cultural and business centre. comfort level in a property. Our strengths in technical building solutions include a nationwide service network and a We want to develop new models of cooperation diverse range of services. We offer a wide variety of services, from contracting to upkeep and maintenance. Our We are actively involved in the development of the preventative upkeep and maintenance services, in particular, construction industry. We are developing new models of enable us to help our customers save energy. cooperation for circumstances in which public-sector investments are hindered by a lack of funding while the need In February 2013, we assumed responsibility for the upkeep for renovation and refurbishment of building stock increases. and maintenance of technical building systems in 47 shopping centres and commercial properties owned by One solution to this is the PPP model (Public Private Citycon in Finland. Through preventative upkeep and Partnership) in which the service provider has the maintenance, we help the customer save energy and create responsibility, among other things, for planning, comfortable conditions for people using the property. In implementing and maintaining the property throughout the October 2013, we also assumed responsibility for the upkeep term of the service agreement. These projects are often and maintenance of Itis, the largest shopping centre in the based on private funding, and the service provider may also Nordic countries, located in Helsinki. participate in the arrangement of funding. We signed an agreement with Ilmarinen on the provision of In 2013, we completed the construction work in an extensive maintenance services for its properties in the Helsinki PPP project in Kuopio, Finland. The project comprised the metropolitan area. The multipart agreement covers several new construction and renovation work of four schools and a technical building services. In addition to basic maintenance, day-care centre. The last of the new buildings was the agreement also includes the nationwide operational completed in summer 2013. We will be in charge of the management services of electrical systems. property’s upkeep and maintenance for the next 25 years. Business › Working › Far-sighted property maintenance CASE Far-sighted property maintenance Since 2008, we have been responsible for the upkeep, Since September, we have also been responsible for technical maintenance and repair services of LocalTapiola Group’s property maintenance, scheduled maintenance of the head office buildings' technical building systems. Our good technical building systems and repair work services in cooperation continued in 2013. several commercial properties. Most of the properties 32 SITE_FOOTER included in the agreement are located in the Helsinki tailor our service concept to serve the needs of both metropolitan area. LocalTapiola and the tenants using its properties. With systematic and planned maintenance and repair “Lemminkäinen offered services with a competitive priceservices, we can extend the life cycle of LocalTapiola’s quality ratio. In particular, the ability to serve tenants, energy properties, improve risk and conditions management and also efficiency and customer reporting are emphasised in the ensure the development of the value of the properties. services,” says Pia Akselin, Head of Business Unit at Corbel Oy, the company that manages LocalTapiola’s properties. Expanded cooperation also enables us to further Business › Working › Growth centre Lappeenranta CASE Growth centre Lappeenranta We want to participate closely in the development of growth companies have had plenty of work since the beginning of centres. In Lappeenranta, we build traffic connections and the contract for broadening Highway 6 to four lanes in 2008 shopping opportunities for the rapidly increasing number of and, judging from the growth rate in building construction, it tourists. seems that this state of affairs will continue. In July 2013, a new record was set at the border crossing “In the next two years, approximately 150,000 floor square points of Southeast Finland (Nuijamaa, Imatra, Vaalimaa and metres of commercial space will be completed,” Heikkinen Vainikkala): more than a million border crossings a month. In summarises. In 2013, we started for example earthworks for the autumn, we constructed a truck lane on the narrow the new IKEA in Lappeenranta. Nuijamaantie road to alleviate traffic jams. Previously, construction activities concentrated alongside “When it comes to construction, Lappeenranta is the most Highway 6, where our work can be seen in the Myllymäki area active region in Finland outside the Helsinki Metropolitan with its shopping centres, and largely built by Lemminkäinen. Area,” says regional manager Arto Heikkinen, Paving Nevertheless, the area does not detract from the appeal of atLemminkäinen. the city centre. For three years in a row, Shopping Centre Galleria, built by us in 2007, has been the number one Cross-border traffic between Finland and Russia is predicted shopping centre in Finland as far as tax-free shopping by to quadruple from the current level by 2025, so there will be tourists is concerned. We have just completed two a great demand for road construction at border crossing residential/commercial buildings next to Galleria and the points, too. The 16-lane passport boulevard constructed by third will be completed in spring 2014. In addition, there are us at the Imatra frontier station was completed in 2013. plans for a new office building and a new According to Heikkinen, infrastructure construction residential/commercial building right in the city centre. Business › Working › A living room for the inhabitants of Helsinki CASE A living room for the inhabitants of Helsinki Töölönlahti in the centre of Helsinki is one of the largest and allocation competition. This marked the start of one of the most visible construction projects in Finland. It is also a largest construction projects in Finland. The first building to workplace, a home and a recreational area for many people be completed was Alma Media’s building next to the railroad visiting or living in central Helsinki. tracks in 2012. The media company’s specific needs were carefully taken into account in the building. The fact that In 2010, Lemminkäinen and the developer Etera won the floors form large entities facilitates open plan office solutions plots of three blocks in Töölönlahti in a site and close internal cooperation. 33 SITE_FOOTER KPMG’s office building next to the railway station will be All of the new properties fulfil the requirements of the LEED completed in 2014. This colourful eye-catcher of a building environment certificate. has a 200-metre-long wavy facade – there will be plenty of those coveted desks by the window. The building’s other A new approach to building a parking facility structures will follow the shape of the facade: even the P-Finlandia, a 650-car parking facility, transformed the radiators will be curved. In 2013, the building was selected cityscape by moving the former outdoor parking area in front as the best building construction site in a competition of Finlandia Hall underground. In addition to the parking arranged by Rakennuslehti, a Finnish construction industry facility completed in 2012, we built service connections for magazine. The review highlighted the quality of work and the Finlandia Hall and the Helsinki Music Centre as well as attention paid to safety – after all, the building is located pedestrian routes in four different directions. right next to the railway tracks and several other construction sites. The smooth flow of operations on the site was We managed to fit in all the required facilities into a space promoted by the use of data modelling and diligent, 25 per cent smaller in cubic volume without sacrificing appropriately timed stakeholder communications. functionality. The efficiency of space utilisation was improved by turning some of the driving routes into parking Ernst & Young’s premises will be completed in 2014 on the spaces and combining the service facilities of Finlandia Hall northern edge of the area, next to a park. An increasingly into one entity. Particular attention was paid to the ease of mobile and flexible working culture requires premises that are use and clarity. modifiable, which improves their utilisation rate. “We noticed that it is worthwhile investing in the surface Töölönlahti is also a residential area. Housing company Aalto, materials and lighting in the areas in front of elevators and in which consists of 22 apartments, was completed in 2013, pedestrian tunnels,” says Project Manager Hannu and housing company Alvar, which will be completed in May Leppävuori. “After all, in a large project, it is quite a small 2014, consists of 15 households. All apartments are within a investment that nevertheless affects the everyday life of stone’s throw of the Helsinki railway station, the Helsinki many people as well as the functionality of the outcome.” Music Centre, the Museum of Contemporary Art Kiasma, and the coming Central Library. The pedestrian and bicycle route Baana passes through the area, and there is a jogging path around the bay. Business › Working › Energy-efficient logistics centre CASE Energy-efficient logistics centre As a consortium with Skanska, we are building a logistics “The project has been divided into five different phases, and centre for daily consumer goods for S Group in Sipoo. This is the planning of some of these will continue after the one of the largest construction projects in Finland, with a beginning of construction. We invest particularly in planning gross surface area of approximately 190,000 square metres. management and implementation planning, in cooperation When completed, the logistics centre is more than thirty with the customer, subcontractors and suppliers in order to times as big as the Finnish Parliament House. The maximum ensure that the project proceeds smoothly and yields the best number of employees at the construction site is 500. outcome. The new logistics centre will be fully inaugurated in 2018.” “In 2010–2012, we built a logistics centre for durable goods for S Group in the same area, and thanks to the experience The logistics centre features energy-efficient engineering and gained in that project, we can provide the customer with a will apply for BREEAM certification. skilled and experienced team for this new project. We have strong expertise in the construction of even demanding “The certification requires that we take environmental logistics centres,” says Construction Manager Heikki aspects into account in material choices, for instance,” says Schemeikka. Schemeikka. 34 SITE_FOOTER The aim is to construct a building that is carbon neutral when 50% share a pellet energy is being used for the heating. The it comes to heating and cooling energy. Geothermal heat and whole building has been designed to use renewable energy condensing heat are utilised in the heating and cooling of the and cause only little emission,” says SOK's Construction building. For colder weather, a pellet power plant will be built Project Manager Juha Äijälä. in the logistics centre. “Geothermal heat and condensing heat are utilised in the cooling of the building, in addition, with an approximately Business › Customer cooperation We develop customer cooperation Through new kinds of cooperation models and closer interaction, we can anticipate our customers’ needs better and develop solutions that serve them in the best possible manner. In 2013, we developed customer cooperation. An example of customers did not increased. Instead, the number of neutral a new type of cooperation is the alliance contract for the customers increased; in other words, the customer Rantaväylä tunnel in Tampere in which the customer and the commitment rate decreased. service providers design and implement the project as a joint organisation and share the risks and opportunities associated There were significant businessand country-specific with the project. Through jointly created innovations, we will differences in our net promoter score. For example, in many can reduce the disruption caused by the construction site, of our infrastructure construction businesses, the score create cost savings and accelerate processes. continues to be at an excellent level or close to it. On the basis of the feedback received in the survey, we defined Dialogue generates new ideas business-specific development measures in order to improve the customer experience. We will advance these measures in The management’s key customer meetings, launched in 2014. 2012, have become an established practice. The meetings enable us, together with our customers, to identify the We continued development activities to improve customer customers’ needs at an early stage and define the most service, customer interaction and cooperation in 2013. For essential development areas related to them. 2014, we have highlighted customer communications and the quality perceived by the customer as the most significant In 2014, we will develop particularly the systematic focus areas, and we have launched development measures utilisation of customer and market data. regarding both of these aspects. We will conduct the next NPS survey in summer 2014. Development on the basis of customer feedback In addition to the NPS survey, we also measure projectIn 2013, we conducted our third international NPS (Net Promoter Score) customer satisfaction survey. The net specific customer satisfaction by enquiring from our customers about their satisfaction after each completed promoter score is the key indicator of our customer project. satisfaction that measures the probability of whether consumers, companies and public administrations will recommend Lemminkäinen. Better service on the Internet In 2013, we launched our Group’s renewed Finnish and In 2013, we conducted the NPS survey in Finland, Sweden, English websites. This renewal developed our online service. Norway, Denmark and the Baltic countries. Russia was not The feedback received from a user survey indicates that it is included in the survey this time. now much easier for the website users to find the information they are looking for. The website development is continuing In 2013, our net promoter score decreased to 23.4 (2012: 29.3). However, the share of unsatisfied in 2014 with the renewal of our housing website in Finland and the continued development of our country-specific sites. 35 SITE_FOOTER Business › Business segment review Business segment review International operations NET SALES Infrastructure construction, Scandinavia, 52% Infrastructure construction, Baltics and Russia, 22% Building construction, Sweden, 12% Building construction, Russia, 10% Other, 4% NET SALES, EUR million OPERATING PROFIT, EUR million 1,000 60 40 750 20 500 0 250 -20 0 -40 11 12 13 11 12 13 Building construction NET SALES 36 SITE_FOOTER Residential development, 40% Commercial development, 19% Contracting ja other operations, 41% 37 SITE_FOOTER NET SALES, EUR million 800 600 400 200 0 11 12 13 OPERATING PROFIT, EUR million 20 15 10 5 0 11 12 13 Infrastructure construction NET SALES Paving, 45% Mineral aggregates, 14% Earthworks, 18% Rock engineering, 10% Foundation engineering, 13% 38 SITE_FOOTER NET SALES, EUR million 600 450 300 150 0 11 12 13 OPERATING PROFIT, EUR million 50 40 30 20 10 0 11 12 13 Technical building services NET SALES Upkeep and maintenance, 30% Contracting, 70% 39 SITE_FOOTER NET SALES, EUR million 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 11 12 13 OPERATING PROFIT, EUR million 4 2 0 -2 11 12 13 40 SITE_FOOTER Sustainability › Our way of working Our way of working Our goal is to develop our operations profitably and responsibly over the long term. We want to create conditions that make living, working and travelling functional, safe and healthy, while also respecting the environment. We base our operations on our values: about our Code of Conduct to our personnel. Currently we offer our employees online training in competition law. Our Respect and trust goal for 2014 is to expand online training to cover our Code Constructive collaboration of Conduct in its entirety. Sustainable growth and development We encourage all Lemminkäinen employees to report to their own supervisors or to internal audit any suspected We comply with our Code of Conduct malpractice or behaviour that does not comply with our Code of Conduct. The internal audit unit investigates all reports it Our operations are guided by our Code of Conduct. The Code receives. In addition, its tasks include conducting regular is based on international regulations, such as the UN’s audits of business operations and reporting its findings to the Declaration of Human Rights and the Global Compact’s ten Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. principles that are related to human rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corruption. The Code also adheres to In 2013, we introduced the SpeakUp service for the ILO’s employment rights and principles, the OECD’s Lemminkäinen employees and external stakeholders to report operational guidelines for multinational companies, and the any suspected malpractice anonymously. Suspected cases International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) are handled in accordance with all relevant legislation and recommendations. In addition, our Code of Conduct acts as a Lemminkäinen’s internal practices, while respecting personal set of guidelines for our partners. privacy and the rights of all parties. Our Code of Conduct is supplemented by various policies and In 2013, the internal audit unit launched further guidelines, such as a competition law guidebook, insider and investigations into 10 cases of suspected malpractice, six of entertainment guidelines and sponsorship principles. which led to further action. The cases of malpractice did not According to the 2013 employee survey, 76 per cent of have a significant financial impact. Lemminkäinen employees feel that they know how to apply our Code of Conduct. We regularly communicate Materiality matrix 41 SITE_FOOTER 42 SITE_FOOTER Sustainability › Cooperation with stakeholders Cooperation with stakeholders Continuous engagement with our stakeholders is an important means of developing our operations. New, insightful solutions will not become reality without close cooperation with our customers and partners. In all stakeholder cooperation, we adhere to our Code of We monitor the results of stakeholder cooperation Conduct as well as to local and international commitments and legislation. Our stakeholders are current and potential annually customers, current and potential employees, shareholders In order to develop our operations, we measure the results of and investors, analysts, financiers, partners and the media. stakeholder cooperation regularly. The most important Our business units have the main responsibility for customer Group-wide surveys that we conduct are: relations and our centralised procurement organisation for the net promoter score measuring customer the partner network. Our Group functions are responsible for satisfaction (annually) relations with investors, shareholders, financiers, the media, industry associations, decision makers and authorities. the employee survey (annually) the employer image survey (annually for different Continuous dialogue student groups) In 2013, our stakeholders were particularly interested in the the brand survey (every two years). development of services and solutions, our new strategy as well as our financial result and the outlook in the operating According to the survey results, Lemminkäinen is considered environment. a company with professional and skilled personnel and highAs a significant employer and buyer of services, we engage in quality products and services. Our personnel are satisfied with Lemminkäinen as an employer, and Lemminkäinen is a continuous dialogue with local authorities and decision makers. At the planning and launching phase of large regarded as an interesting employer among the key student construction projects, we also arrange town hall meetings for groups. those stakeholders whose daily lives will be affected by our A stakeholder survey, which was intended in autumn 2013, projects. was postponed to 2014 so that we could fully utilise our new We regularly collect customer feedback, which enables us to strategy, published in October 2013, in the survey. develop our business in the right direction. For example, in the Infrastructure construction business segment, we We support non-profit associations continued to unify the organisations of the paving, mineral Our sponsorship principles are based on our values and Code aggregates and earthworks businesses, as we have received of Conduct. In 2013, we focused on supporting children and a lot of positive feedback from our customers regarding the young people. Our main sponsorship partners were the operating model where all necessary services can be acquired Finnish National Skills Competition Taitaja and the Myrsky in one place. project of the Finnish Children and Youth Foundation. During the reporting year, we renewed Lemminkäinen Group’s In addition, we made a donation to the New Children’s website. Through the new website, we can offer our Hospital 2017 project and, at the same time, challenged stakeholders easy-to-find, up-to-date information about other players in the construction industry to contribute to the Lemminkäinen as well as about our products and services. launch of the project. As in previous years, instead of sending During the next few years, we will renew our country-specific Christmas greetings, we supported a charity. The charity websites. In 2014, we will chart our stakeholders’ behaviour chosen for 2013 was Baltic Sea Action Group’s Throw Your in social media and consider ways to serve them better. Christmas Gifts to the Baltic Sea campaign. Link to the customer text Table of stakeholders 43 SITE_FOOTER Table of stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations Actions 2013 Industry associations, such as the Confederation of Finnish Continuous development in the Active participation in associations’ work, Construction Industries RT industry work groups and projects Promoting common interests Customers High-quality, reliable and Face-to-face meetings sustainable solutions Customer events Good project management, Dialogue at industry trade fairs and other delivery reliability, transparency, events and the right price-quality ratio Newsletters and online services Understanding customer needs, Customer magazine customer service, and customer Customer satisfaction surveys relations management Personnel Good leadership, management and Developing supervisory work, management supervisory work and leadership Motivating remuneration and Training and competence development opportunities for training and Employee survey personal development Developing remuneration Equality and openness within the Continual development of occupational organisation safety and well-being Occupational safety and wellOpen communications and building an being open corporate culture Media Reliable and up-to-date Stock exchange and press releases information about the company’s Press conferences and visits by editorial operations staff Open communications culture Interviews and off-the-record meetings Easy to contact Shareholders and investors Sufficient return on their Investor and analyst meetings investment and a sufficient Annual General Meeting analysis of the company’s risk Stock exchange and press releases; management regular, open reporting Open and timely information about Website the company’s financial position and outlook Students and job applicants Interesting and challenging tasks Summer jobs and trainee positions, Comprehensive information about opportunities for writing theses, and career opportunities offered by cooperation with educational institutions Lemminkäinen Dialogue at trade fairs Visibility in student and professional publications Employer image surveys Cooperation with Taitaja, a competition run by Skills Finland Amis-Dialogi project with vocational students 44 SITE_FOOTER Decision makers and opinion leaders Compliance with laws and Dialogue through industry organisations regulations in, for example, political decision making Transparency and minimising Local meetings with decision makers hazardous impacts Stock exchange and press releases; Regular reporting regular, open reporting Increasing employment; good corporate citizenship Payment of taxes Partners Safeguarding earnings and growth Meetings and direct contacts Opportunities for networking and Supplier audits developing operations Development of procurement systems Operational reliability and continuity Sustainability › Financial responsibility Financial responsibility Distribution of economic value added to our Customers stakeholder groups EUR 2,235.9 million (EUR For us, it is important to grow and develop our company’s business responsibly over the long term. We want to create 2,359.9 million) value added for our stakeholders in a manner that benefits all Direct impact parties. This requires considerable investments in the We offer our customers high-quality, development of our personnel’s competence and in customer reliable and sustainable solutions. relations management so that we are able offer our customers the best services in the market. Indirect impact Our solutions create conditions that make living, working and travelling functional, safe and healthy. Continuous operational development leads to the introduction of new, costeffective and sustainable solutions. For example: The upkeep and maintenance of technical building systems help our customers to optimise their properties’ energy consumption – even without investments in new equipment. Low-temperature and recycled asphalts reduce the environmental footprint of infrastructure projects, as their manufacture consumes less energy or virgin materials. Distribution of economic value added 2013 Economic value added generated 2013 Suppliers and partners Investments 45 SITE_FOOTER Suppliers and partners Investments EUR 1,882.4 million (EUR EUR 71.3 million (EUR 64.5 1,793.4 million) million) Direct impact Direct impact We purchase construction-related raw We invest in operational development in materials, products and services from all of our operating countries. our partners. Indirect impact Indirect impact We create new business opportunities We are a significant local service buyer. to improve our competitiveness. At the Our purchases create jobs and open up same time we safeguard jobs through new business opportunities for our investments. partners. Our investments in new, We seek long-term cooperation environmentally friendly production agreements that give our suppliers and methods help to reduce our partners the opportunity to develop their environmental footprint. business over the long term. We are continuously developing new cooperation models that enable the Public sector sharing of expertise. EUR 4.2 million (EUR 5.7 Personnel million) EUR 449.0 million (EUR Direct impact We pay income taxes. 465.4 million) Indirect impact Direct impact We support social well-being by We employ about 7,800 persons in 8 paying taxes and making other countries. mandatory payments. In addition, We make social security and employer our personnel pay income taxes contributions. from their salaries. We are a significant employer in Indirect impact many countries locally and our We continuously develop our purchases from partners also personnel’s competence and offer support employment. interesting career paths. We support the development of We are a significant employer in many local communities through, for region. example, sponsorship and We invest in our personnel’s cooperation with educational occupational safety and well-being, institutions. which lengthens careers. We provide our personnel with retraining opportunities. Shareholders and financiers EUR 55.2 million (EUR 48.5 million) Direct impact For 2013, a dividend of EUR 0.00 per share* (EUR 0.60 per share) is proposed. We pay interest to financiers. Indirect impact We seek to increase shareholder value * The Board of Directors’ proposal 46 SITE_FOOTER We seek to increase shareholder value * The Board of Directors’ proposal by offering a steady flow of dividends to our shareholders. Sustainability › Environmental responsibility We reduce our environmental footprint We minimise any environmental impact of our operations, use natural resources sparingly, and generate as little waste as possible. In addition, we offer our customers products and services that enable them to reduce their own energy consumption in particular. In our daily business, we consider both the direct and indirect consequently reduces the need for new investments. With impact of our operations on the surrounding community. appropriately optimised technical building systems, our We constantly strive to reduce the environmental impact of customers can reduce their energy consumption by up to 30 our own production. per cent. In 2013, we started nationwide upkeep and maintenance cooperation with the property investor Citycon Our environmentally friendly products and services in 47 of their properties, among other cooperation projects. Construction has a major impact on the environment. According to studies, the use of buildings accounts for We develop our paving business in an environmentapproximately 30 per cent, construction for 6 per cent and oriented manner traffic for 20 per cent of all carbon dioxide emissions in Most of our environmental footprint comes from our own Finland. We develop solutions that will help our customers to production, especially our paving and mineral aggregates reduce their environmental impact. business. During the last 20 years, our paving business development has concentrated particularly on sustainability, Focus on energy efficiency for example on energy efficiency and the utilisation of The Nordic countries pay particular attention to energyrecycled materials. efficient construction. For example, many property investors In order to reduce our own energy consumption, we track the require their commercial properties to be very energy-efficient energy consumption of our asphalt plants regularly, optimise and executed in a manner that allows them to obtain general the production temperature of asphalt and invest in construction industry environmental certification, such as equipment that makes it possible to increase the production BREEAM or LEED. We consider these requirements already volumes of low-temperature asphalt. In the production of during design management. In 2013, we had four ongoing low-temperature asphalt, bitumen is mixed into the asphalt projects for which we will apply for environmental mass by turning it into foam with water, which allows the certification. The sites are located in Töölö Bay (in Helsinki), production temperatures to be lowered further. in Sipoo (in the Helsinki metropolitan area), in Oulu (northern Finland) and in St Petersburg. In all of our operating countries, our goal is to increase the use of reclaimed asphalt. In Finland, the regulation governing Technical building solutions allow us to influence the energy the utilisation of reclaimed asphalt was amended in late consumed by a building while it is in use. This energy 2012, making the use of recycled raw materials easier. In all consumption creates the greatest environmental impact of a our operating countries, the use of recycled materials is building’s entire lifecycle. We invest in the upkeep and regulated by the authorities. maintenance services for technical building systems, since preventative measures and optimised adjustments are the In recycled asphalt, milled paving is used as raw material. By best way to reduce the energy consumption of technical recycling, we reduce the need for virgin materials as well as building equipment in properties. Regular maintenance also material transportations. The use of recyclable raw material extends the service life of this equipment and also reduces noise and dust impacts 47 SITE_FOOTER during production at asphalt plants and in their surroundings. As the raw material transportation distances become shorter, the environmental impact of construction becomes smaller. Our goal is to use natural gas as the energy source at our Furthermore, long-term quarrying sites allow us to make asphalt plants whenever this option is available. Natural gas investments that reduce the impact caused in their is the most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly of immediate surroundings. These include noise and protection all the options in use. By using it, we can also reduce our barriers and dust filters. We can utilise these areas as transportation-related emissions, as gas is delivered through recycling centres, when the permits allow it. In 2013, the the gas network directly to the asphalt plant. Ministry of Environment revised the interpretation of the regulation governing the re-use of blasted rock and clean Use of mineral aggregates a large part of our excavated soil in Finland. Consequently, we are able to store environmental footprint blasted rock from tunnel construction sites, for example, and As a major Northern European construction group, we use re-use it as raw material in foundation engineering and large volumes of different mineral aggregates as raw asphalt production. This reduces the need for virgin material. For this reason, we have approximately 300 mineral materials. aggregate areas around our operating countries. The Our goal is to constantly develop the recycling of raw quarrying of mineral aggregates requires an environmental materials and to utilise waste, such as blasted rock, permit. We have an ongoing dialogue with the authorities in generated as a by-product of construction projects to an order to develop the environmental permit process and to find increasing extent. We are developing the entire industry in the best and most ecological solutions for quarrying mineral cooperation with authorities and other industry players. For aggregates. example, we are involved in the UUMA2 programme, In line with our strategy that was published in October 2013, launched in 2013, in which authorities and industry players our goal is to reduce the number of mineral aggregate join forces to look for solutions on how to promote the use of quarrying sites that are far from urban growth centres. recovered materials in earthworks and thus decrease the use Instead, we aim to invest in large, long-term mineral of virgin materials and the environmental effects of aggregate quarrying sites near urban growth centres. earthworks. Sustainability › Environmental responsibility › Paving on the environment’s terms CASE Paving on the environment’s terms The aim of the paving development programme, established recycling, we reduce the need for virgin materials. The use of in 2013, is to promote the environmental friendliness of the recyclable raw material also reduces noise and dust effects paving business and to transfer best practices among our during production at asphalt plants and in their surroundings. operating countries. For our customers, recycled asphalt offers an opportunity to get a more environmentally friendly product with the same As the most significant development steps, we have quality and durability properties than when asphalt mass is identified the increasing use of recycled asphalt as raw made of virgin materials. material, lower asphalt production temperatures and better planning of tasks in the production phase. Through Norway has been pioneering the production of lowsystematic development and standardised, more temperature asphalt. Now we intend to increase its environmentally friendly operating methods, we also improve production in all of our operating countries. In the production our operational efficiency and profitability. of low-temperature asphalt, bitumen is turned into foam with water, which allows it to be mixed into the asphalt mass at a The use of recycled asphalt as raw material has become an lower temperature than in normal asphalt production. A lower established practice in Finland and Denmark. Our aim is that, production temperature reduces our energy consumption and in 2014, the use of recycled asphalt as raw material will be emissions. increased in all of our operating countries. By 48 SITE_FOOTER In 2014, we will also pay attention to smoother planning of selected sites and then gradually expanding its use during work. The better we optimise the transportation of asphalt the next few years. The new tool enables us to plan mass to construction sites, for instance, the less idling and production phase and transportation schedules so that they unnecessary waiting there is. The reduction of idling reduces form a more harmonised whole. our emissions and need for energy. In 2014, we will start using a new work planning tool, at first launching it at Sustainability › Social responsibility › Personnel Success through good supervisory work In 2013, our HR goals included, first and foremost, clarifying supervisors’ roles and increasing the competence of our employees for the new strategy period. Our goal is to be the best employer in the construction employee’s targets. The career development discussions help industry. We pursue this goal by developing leadership, Lemminkäinen employees understand their role in the management, supervisory work and by offering implementation of the strategy. According to our experience, Lemminkäinen employees opportunities to continuously the discussions have a clear impact on personnel develop their expertise. satisfaction, efficient organisation of tasks and labour productivity. In 2013, we placed special emphasis on the Employee survey yielded positive results career development discussions of hourly paid employees. In our employee survey, conducted annually in all of our In 2013, we started the clarification of supervisory roles and operating countries, we look into matters related to, among tasks. This work will be continued in 2014. In order to other things, leadership, management and supervisory work, support supervisory work, we have also standardised and personnel commitment, occupational well-being and safety, developed the HR practices related to recruitment, the and work with customers. The 2013 response rate improved beginning and end of an employment relationship, payroll to 69 per cent, up by one percentage point. Among salaried administration and travel management, for example. employees, the response rate was 74 per cent and among Standardised operating methods also support equality. hourly paid employees 63 per cent. According to the employee survey, management and In general, the overall result was more positive than before, supervisory work at Lemminkäinen has improved. Our result and especially the results from hourly paid employees have is also good when compared to other manufacturing improved clearly. According to respondents, the most organisations. On the basis of the survey results, we have significant improvements have been achieved in identified the lowest performers among our supervisors and occupational safety, environmental protection and the now support them in various ways. application of the Code of Conduct. The number of career development discussions conducted and the handling of the In the autumn of 2013, the global HR management team employee survey results in teams increased from the previous started its work. The team makes decisions on HR guidelines year. that apply to Lemminkäinen employees in all of our operating countries and affect supervisory work. The next areas for We invest in developing leadership which we will be defining common guidelines include Leadership has been defined as one of Lemminkäinen’s key remuneration and personnel reporting. corporate responsibility aspects, and it is also one of the most significant aspects of HR. In the construction industry, Key personnel’s leadership skills assessed project work and changing work locations pose challenges for For the implementation of the new strategy, we wanted to management and supervisory work. gain a good overall picture of leadership competence and its development needs at Lemminkäinen. Therefore, more than Career development discussions are an important leadership 40 members of the key personnel were assessed in summer and management tool for us. During the discussion, an 2013. employee and his/her supervisor agree on the 49 SITE_FOOTER The assessment showed that Lemminkäinen’s key personnel in the Responsible Summer Jobs (Vastuullinen kesäduuni) were very dedicated and leading operations in line with our campaign. The campaign challenges employers to offer values. According to the key personnel, Lemminkäinen’s young people more – and better – summer jobs. We provide strengths include high professional competence, the various forms of support to supevisors in recruitment as well company’s growth opportunities and its strong history. as in the guidance of trainees and summer employees. In Challenges are posed by, for example, last years' change 2013, we had about 350 summer employees working in speed. There is also room for improvement in cooperation Finland. between different businesses and operating countries. In the assessment, change management, ability to change and Dialogue with vocational students people leadership were considered important competence Our goal is to make Lemminkäinen a more interesting requirements of key personnel. employer option especially among vocational students. In 2013, we participated in the Amis-Dialogi project in which People planning helps to ensure competence we, together with vocational students and six other Through people planning, we ensure that our businesses have companies, explored ways to further improve work practices. a sufficient number of the right kinds of experts in the coming year. In the project, a better working life was considered from four different points of view: which skills are useful when working; People planning helps us to organise and plan key tasks, how to attract good employees to where there are jobs identify current and future key talents, conduct succession available; what good work is like; and how companies can be planning and make potential new recruitments. With the aid encouraged to hire new graduates and thus reduce youth of the plan, we identify competence development needs, unemployment. The final report of the Amis-Dialogi will be define remuneration guidelines and develop the management published in spring 2014. of risks related to working capacity. Cooperation and dialogue with students and We develop our employer image student organisations The most important element in the development of We support the activities of construction industry student Lemminkäinen’s employer image is to ensure that our current organisations. At the beginning of 2013, we organised a employees enjoy their work and are satisfied with campaign involving these organisations as well as online Lemminkäinen. Our employee survey provides us with resources to help construction industry students learn more information on our internal employer image. about Lemminkäinen and our operations. In Finland, we monitor our external employer image through The Finnish National Skills Competition Taitaja is the biggest the annual employer image survey conducted by T-Media. In annual event for vocational students in Finland. The 2013, questions related to Lemminkäinen were answered by competition is intended for vocational students aged 20 approximately 12,000 respondents. According to the survey, years or under; in 2013, it was held in Joensuu in eastern approximately 88 per cent of the respondents know Finland. We have sponsored the Taitaja competition for Lemminkäinen as an employer. Our goal is to be the best several years, and in 2013, our sponsored disciplines were air employer in the Finnish construction industry. The survey conditioning installation, plumbing, and masonry and tiling showed that we are the most interesting employer among work. university students interested in the construction industry and the second most interesting employer among technical Cooperation with Taitaja gives us an opportunity to meet vocational degree students. In 2014, we will assess our potential future employees of Lemminkäinen. It also offers us employer image in our other operating countries, too. a chance to tell young people more about Lemminkäinen as an employer and about our employees as colleagues. One of the goals of Lemminkäinen’s employer image activities in 2013 was to increase our attractiveness as an We support competence development employer. We searched for summer employees through a In career development discussions, we evaluate the needs for recruitment campaign in which we also provided information the personnel’s competence and career development. A total about Lemminkäinen as an employer. We want to ensure that of 71 per cent of the Lemminkäinen employees that took the Lemminkäinen’s summer employees have a useful and employee survey had taken part in a career development enjoyable work experience. Therefore, we participated again discussion during the preceding year. Our goal 50 SITE_FOOTER is for every Lemminkäinen employee to have a career learn new things and to transfer their own expertise. A new development discussion. group started in the programme in November 2013. In order to support competence development, we offer customised training to all personnel groups in Finland. The Personnel negotiations in autumn 2013 PAKKI training promotes occupational safety and skills that During 2013, we continued the harmonisation of our ensure top-quality results. The VIILA training offers employer-employee cooperation practices in Finland. In June, additional coaching on various topics, such as competition we organised the first joint staff representative event in our law, improvement of operational efficiency and management Finnish operations. From now on, the joint staff of development projects. representative event will be organised once a year. As part of the Lemminkäinen supervisors’ academy LEKA, In August 2013, we initiated extensive personnel supervisors and management are trained in topics related to negotiations concerning the entire Group and all personnel Lemminkäinen’s common operating models, supervisory groups. The aim was to continue the lightening of the cost work and the implementation of the strategy, for example. structure in order to reduce the impact of seasonality and to improve our competitiveness in an increasingly difficult We transfer experiences and competence market situation. At the same time, it was necessary to Lemminkäinen’s first mentor-mentee and masteradjust the number of personnel to align with the lower journeyman pairs began the approximately 6-month volume of business operations. programme in Finland in spring 2013. In the mentoring and master-journeyman programmes, an experienced expert (the With the new efficiency measures, we are pursuing savings mentor or master) advises, supports and advances a lessof EUR 30 million. As a part of the efficiency measures, we experienced colleague who is eager to develop his or her will reduce our personnel by approximately 500 man-years. skills. By the end of the year, the reduction in Finland was nearly 300 man-years and in other countries approximately 100 The programme will help develop the professional skills of the man-years. In some of our operating countries, the process is mentee or journeyman, as well as the transfer of expertise still ongoing. and tacit knowledge. It will prepare new people for positions that cannot be filled by those coming directly from In Finland, Lemminkäinen offers dismissed personnel educational institutions. It is also suitable for training people outplacement coaching that aims to support them in the for new positions when their working capacity is at risk. change and in finding suitable new employment as quickly as Mentoring is aimed at salaried employees, while the masterpossible. Customised change support has also been provided journeyman model is for hourly paid employees. to individual teams, when necessary. Our experiences with the programme were good. The participants considered it an inspiring way to Sustainability › Social responsibility › Personnel › Highlighting vocational students’ views on working life CASE Highlighting vocational students’ views on working life In the Amis-Dialogi project in 2013, we learnt more about the employer image among vocational students. According to views and hopes of vocational students—a student group them Lemminkäinen has a good working atmosphere and that is important for us with regard to future working life. remuneration, it takes care of its employees and offers good career opportunities. In addition Lemminkäinen's employees The project investigated the kinds of hopes and attitudes enjoy their work. Lemminkäinen's weakness lies in the vocational students have for working life and the kinds of flexibility of work. hopes companies such as ours have with regard to them. At the same time, we got information about our In addition to Lemminkäinen, six other partner companies 51 SITE_FOOTER and ten vocational education institutes from different parts and companies during studies. A young student has only a of Finland participated in this nationwide project. The project vague idea of the types of tasks available in different started in autumn 2013 with a survey at vocational companies. A good approach is to arrange our employees to education institutes. After this, a tour was organised to these visit their former educational institutes. Young people also institutes, during which students were provided with appreciate mentors or persons already in working life who can information about different opportunities in working life and guide them in practical issues,” adds Eero Lahtinen, they were asked about their views on and hopes for working Workforce and Safety Manager, Building construction. life. In February 2014, an extensive research report was published In November 2013, an extensive workshop was arranged as on the basis of information gathered during the project. The part of Amis-Dialogi. In it, our representatives, together with students share the desire to work and they have faith in one's vocational students, contemplated different ways to improve own expertise and future combined the students. 78% of working life. participants believe that they will be employed directly after graduation. “Young people demand a lot from themselves and enter working life with a humble attitude. They want to learn from What is Amis-Dialogi? more experienced people but, at the same time, they also expect supervisors to provide them with proper induction Each year, Amis-Dialogi looks into and improves daily work training and constructive feedback instead of just giving together with companies, their employees and students. The them commands,” says Jani Pentti, Head of HR, goal is a better working life. In Amis-Dialogi, the companies Infrastructure construction, who participated in the that sat down around the same table with vocational workshop. students in 2013 in order to shape future work included, in addition to Lemminkäinen, Hartwall, Helsingin Energia, ISS “The students emphasised the significance of cooperation Palvelut, McDonald’s and Metsä Group. between educational institutes Sustainability › Social responsibility › Occupational well-being We develop occupational well-being We believe that healthy employees accomplishes the best results and are satisfied with their work. In 2013, we concentrated on developing the early support model and improving ergonomics. The majority of our personnel work in physically demanding In Finland, we use the early support model for working conditions at construction sites. This leaves them capacity, which helps us to improve occupational well-being susceptible to occupational diseases and injuries and and lengthen the careers of our personnel. In addition, we increases the risks of disability and early retirement. identify persons with reduced working capacity in Therefore, we develop our occupational healthcare and conjunction with the annual people planning process and occupational well-being services. Our occupational through a regular health survey. We want to find the tasks healthcare is arranged in accordance with the local operating that are suitable for everyone's own working capacity. model in each of our operating countries. The adoption of the early support model has proceeded well. Good results in improving occupational health and For example, sickness absences have decreased steadily for a couple of years in a row. In 2013, the sickness absence well-being through the early support model percentage in Finland was 3.32 per cent (2012: 3.60 per In particular, we focus on preventive measures and the early cent). The number of occupational healthcare consultations identification of potential risks to working capacity. We is still rising. During a consultation, the employee and his/her believe that healthy and contented employees accomplish supervisor, together with the occupational healthcare service, the best results and are satisfied with their work. discuss solutions to support working capacity. We offer our employees the opportunity to retrain 52 SITE_FOOTER or help them to reorganise their current duties with the help In the spring 2013, we published a video that advises of coaching. The number of job trials and retraining employees on ergonomics. The video introduces correct arrangements in Finland in 2013 was approximately 30 (20). lifting techniques and safe working positions for various In 2013, the number of Lemminkäinen employees retiring on tasks in the construction industry. In addition, it provides tips disability pension in Finland was 34 (36). for muscle care at the work site. The video is used at on-site weekly meetings and in induction training in Finland. In We reduce the risk of injuries with correct working 2014, we will also publish other language versions of the positions video. Construction industry work entails tasks that cause a lot of physical strain. Muscles and joints may become overburdened. A common injury is pulling one’s back muscles due to sudden or incorrect movement. With the correct working positions, we can reduce the risk of injuries. Sustainability › Social responsibility › Occupational safety Safety – the most important issue in a working day At Lemminkäinen, the theme for 2013 was occupational safety. We are pursuing our zero-accident target through mandatory weekly meetings on construction sites and by paying attention to the use of protective equipment. In 2013, our site accident frequency rate was 16.3 (22.0). We implemented weekly meetings in every country The figure does not include accidents during commuting or occupational diseases. Although we are advancing in the We constantly plan and take measures to improve right direction, our long-term target is zero accidents by occupational safety. To accelerate this development, we 2020. Unfortunately, one fatal accident involving an designated occupational safety as the theme for 2013. employee of a subcontractor occurred at one of our sites in During the year, occupational safety was brought to centre Finland in 2013. stage in all of our activities. Supervisors relayed the message in the daily work, and the Group’s and business segments’ The business segment management teams and the Group’s management participated in on-site occupational safety Executive Team regularly monitor the development of the reviews. accident frequency rate, its causes and the measures we take to improve the rate. The business segment management At the end of 2012, we introduced weekly meetings at our teams discuss every serious accident at their meetings. We sites in Finland. These meetings are also attended by our also report on occupational safety to Lemminkäinen’s Board subcontractors and their employees. During the reporting year of Directors. In addition, the accident frequency rate is one of in Finland, the weekly meetings rate was 81 per cent. In early the bases for the payment of performance bonuses in our 2013, this practice was also launched in our other operating business segments. countries. Our goal is for all of our sites to hold weekly meetings in 2014. Monthly reports on the weekly meetings In 2013, we harmonised the reporting of the accident are submitted to the Group’s Executive Team. frequency rate in all of our operating countries and monitored the classification of accidents more closely. However, we During 2013, we increased the number of site safety audits. were not able to expand the monitoring of the The segment safety managers, together with the site subcontractors’ accident frequency rate to all of our manager, are responsible for the safety audits. In 2013, the operations. We started the subcontractors’ accident management participated in the audits, too. Throughout the frequency rate reporting in 2014. year, we conducted more than 100 safety audits during which we carefully review the site-specific risks and agree on concrete measures to avoid accidents, 53 SITE_FOOTER such as slipping. We pay particular attention to the safety issues. Training helps us to reduce the risk of construction sites where there is most room for improvement accidents and ensure that the required protective equipment in occupational safety practices. is used appropriately. We collect safety observations in many different ways. In line We will standardise protective equipment with our target, we enhanced our electronic safety observation system by introducing a text message practices application in all of our business segments in Finland. With Personal protective equipment is mandatory at all of our the application, our personnel can send safety observations construction sites. The rules also apply to our subcontractors as either pictures or text messages. In fact, the number of and their employees. safety observations in Finland increased by 33 per cent during the reporting year. In our other operating countries, we In 2013, we updated our protective equipment catalogue. Ou protective equipment supplier toured our construction sites, increased the awareness of the importance of safety observations through safety audits and supervisor providing guidance and assistance in the use of protective equipment in Finland. With these actions, we aim to reduce communications, among other measures. Consequently, the number of safety observations increased tenfold. the accidents caused by inappropriate equipment. For example, many of the accidents that occur at our In September 2013, we held the traditional occupational construction sites are the result of neglecting to use cutsafety week. The activities organised at construction sites resistant gloves; in most cases, they could have been during the week included first-aid training, reminders on the prevented with the proper protective equipment. We also appropriate use of protective equipment, rescue drills and invest in the development of working methods constantly employee interviews on occupational safety issues. In and pay attention not only to ergonomics but also to the order addition, the Group’s management conducted on-site safety and phasing of work so that sites do not have areas without rounds. In 2014, we will hold the occupational safety week in the necessary railings, for instance. May together with other companies in the construction industry. During 2014, we will harmonise our protective equipment practices in all of our operating countries. We continuously train our personnel in occupational Sustainability › Social responsibility › Occupational safety › Occupational safety is improved each week CASE Occupational safety is improved each week Lemminkäinen started weekly employee meetings at all of its Aarniolehto has noticed that occupational safety issues are Finnish construction sites in December 2012. At the sites discussed daily to a greater extent and more openly than located in Jyväskylä, meetings were already launched in 2011 before. “And there is hardly any need to remind people about and the region has broken records in the number of accidentthe use of personal protective equipment; they have become free days. self-evident.” At the construction site for the Harjunportti apartment block At the meetings, the team goes through the latest in the centre of Jyväskylä, the meetings are held every occupational safety issues and announcements. The Monday morning, led by general foreman Perttu meetings are also attended by wage employees, electricians Aarniolehto. and subcontractors, who also have a separate subcontractor meeting. The meeting proceeds briskly and lasts 15–40 “The way of thinking on the site has changed significantly. minutes, offering everyone an opportunity to voice their Safety gear and equipment were already good before, but opinion. The occupational safety and risk management now they are used, too,” construction worker Timo Åkerman measurements from the previous week are reviewed together. says. Accidents and hazards, if any, are discussed and it is determined how they can be avoided in future. For example, a 54 SITE_FOOTER hazard was caused at the Harjunportti site by a crowbar According to the results of the employee survey, employees’ falling when a mould was being dismantled. In future, safety access to information has improved clearly since the weekly zones will be fenced off in order to avoid accidents. meetings were introduced. The accident frequency rate has also decreased; however, this is also the result of other safety Following the discussion of safety issues, the meeting improvements having been carried out during the year. proceeds to the plans for the coming week. “There are fewer disruptions at construction sites when each week’s tasks, working methods and material needs are reviewed in advance,” says Aarniolehto. Sustainability › GRI › GRI table GRI table We have declared that our reporting is compliant with Application Level B+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it is compliant with Application Level B+. ● Reported ● Partly reported ● Not reported GRI Content Reporting Remarks Pages 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO's statement ● CEO's review The new ● strategy for 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Strategy 2014–2018 Risk Operating environment management 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● Lemminkäinen in brief 2.2 Primary brands, products and services ● Business segment review Operational structure incl. main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, joint ● Shares and 2.3 ventures Operating segments holdings Accounting principles applied ● in the IFRS consolidated 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters financial statements The number of major operating countries of Lemminkäinen is 8: Finland, ● Number of countries and names of Sweden, Norway, Denmark, countries with major operations or that are Russia, Estonia, Latvia and 2.5 relevant to sustainability issues Lithuania. Corporate Governance ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Statement Financial Markets served (geographic breakdown, performance ● sectors served, types of and targets 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) Business segment review 2013 Scale of the reporting organization (Number of employees, number of operations, net sales, total capitalization by debt and ● equity, quantitity of products/services 2.8 provided) Lemminkäinen in brief Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership (location of, or changes in operations, incl. facility ● openings, closings, and expansions; and No significant changes 2.9 changes in share capital structure) during the reporting period. 55 SITE_FOOTER No awards that GRI ● requires to be reported 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period during the reporting period. 3. Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period ● Reporting principles Lemminkäinen’s annual ● report 2012 was published 3.2 Date of most recent report 19 March 2013. 3.3 Reporting cycle ● Reporting principles Contact point for questions regarding the http://www.lemminkainen.com/ ● 3.4 report or its content Lemminkainen/Contacts/ Report scope and boundary Process for defining report content (materiality, prioritizing topics and ● Our way of 3.5 stakeholders using the report) Reporting principles working Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, ● 3.6 joint ventures, suppliers). Reporting principles State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see ● completeness principle for explanation of 3.7 scope). Reporting principles Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can ● significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between 3.8 organizations. Reporting principles Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying ● estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the 3.9 report. Reporting principles Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re● statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of 3.10 business, measurement methods). Reporting principles Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or ● 3.11 measurement methods Reporting principles GRI content index Table identifying the location of the ● 3.12 Standard Disclosures in the report. Assurance Independent Policy and current practice with regard to ● assurance 3.13 seeking external assurance for the report. Reporting principles report 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organisation, incl. committees under the highest governance body (mandate and composition incl. number of independent members and/or non-executive members) ● (report % of individuals by gender within the highest governance body, broken down by age group and minority group Corporate Governance Board of 4.1 membership/ other indicator of diversity) Statement Directors 56 SITE_FOOTER Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ● Corporate Governance 4.2 officer. Statement For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body ● that are independent and/or non-executive 4.3 members. Board of Directors Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Corporate Governance 4.4 direction to the highest governance body. Statement Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including ● departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including 4.5 social and environmental performance). Remuneration Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of ● Corporate Governance 4.6 interest are avoided. Statement Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the Board of Directors and its committees, including any ● consideration of gender and other indicators Corporate Governance 4.7 of diversity Statement Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and ● social performance and the status of their Sustainability management 4.8 implementation. systems Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social ● performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance Corporate with internationally agreed standards, Sustainability management Governance 4.9 codes of conduct, and principles. systems Statement Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, ● particularly with respect to economic, Corporate Governance 4.10 environmental, and social performance. Statement Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is ● 4.11 addressed by the organization. Risk management Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, ● principles, or other initiatives to which the Sustainability management 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. systems Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * ● Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views 4.13 membership as strategic. Our way of working Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the ● 4.14 organization. Cooperation with stakeholders Basis for identification and selection of ● 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage. Cooperation with stakeholders 57 SITE_FOOTER Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type ● 4.16 and by stakeholder group. Cooperation with stakeholders Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to ● those key topics and concerns, including 4.17 through its reporting. Cooperation with stakeholders Personnel Customer cooperation Economic Performance Indicators Management approach to economic Corporate Governance Risk ● responsibility Statement management Sustainability management Economic Performance Group strategy systems Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations ● and other community investments, Cooperation retained earnings, and payments to capital with EC1* providers and governments. Financial responsibility stakeholders Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's ● Economic performance EC2* activities due to climate change. indicators Coverage of the organization's defined ● EC3* benefit plan obligations. Pension obligations Significant financial assistance received Economic performance ● EC4* from government. indicators Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local ● minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at ● EC6* significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local ● community at significant locations of EC7* operation. Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through ● commercial, in-kind, or pro bono EC8* engagement. Understanding and describing significant Economic indirect economic impacts, including the ● performance EC9 extent of impacts. Financial responsibility indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Management approach to Sustainability management Environmental ● environmental responsibility systems responsibility Materials EN1* Materials used by weight or volume ● Percentage of materials used that are ● EN2* recycled input materials Environmental responsibility Energy Direct energy consumption by primary Environmental performance ● EN3* source indicators Indirect energy consumption by primary Environmental performance ● EN4* source indicators Energy saved due to conservation and ● EN5 efficiency improvements 58 SITE_FOOTER Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and ● services, and reductions in energy EN6 requirements as a result of these initiatives Environmental responsibility Initiatives to reduce indirect energy ● EN7 consumption and reductions achieved Water Environmental performance ● EN8* Total water withdrawal by source indicators Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water (incl. ● value/importance of water source to local EN9 communities) Percentage and total volume of water ● EN10 recycled and reused Biodiversity Location and size of land holdings in areas ● EN11* of high biodiversity Description of significant impact of activities, products, and services on ● EN12* biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● Managing impacts on biodiversity (incl. Environmental performance ● EN14 engagement with relevant stakeholders) indicators Species with extinction risk with habitats ● EN15 in areas affected by operations Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Environmental performance ● EN16* emissions indicators Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas ● EN17* emissions Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas EN18 emissions EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ● NOx, SOx, and other significant air ● EN20* emissions Total water discharge by quality and ● EN21* destination Total amount of waste by type and Environmental performance ● EN22* disposal method indicators Total number and volume of significant ● EN23* spills Transported, imported, exported, or treated ● EN24 hazardous waste Water bodies and habitats affected by ● EN25 discharges of water Products and Services Mitigating environmental impacts of ● EN26* products and services Environmental responsibility Percentage of products sold and their ● EN27* packaging materials reclaimed by category Compliance Significant fines and sanctions for nonEnvironmental performance ● EN28* compliance with environmental regulations indicators Transport Environmental performance ● EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation indicators Overall Total environmental protection ● EN30 expenditures and investments 59 SITE_FOOTER Social Performance Indicators Sustainability management ● Labor Practices and Decent Work systems Personnel Management approach to labor Occupational practices and decent work Occupational well-being safety Employment Total workforce by employment type, Board of employment contract and region, broken ● Directors' LA1* down by gender Social performance indicators report Total number and rate of new employee Board of hires and employee turnover by age group, ● Directors' LA2* gender and region Social performance indicators report Benefits to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time ● LA3 employees Labor/Management Relations Coverage of collective bargaining ● LA4* agreements Social performance indicators Minimum notice period regarding Lemminkäinen complies ● LA5* operational changes with local legislation. Social performance indicators Personnel Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of employees represented in ● LA6 joint health and safety committees Social performance indicators Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, fatalities and absenteeism by region, ● Occupational LA7* and by gender Social performance indicators safety Education and prevention programmes Occupational ● LA8* regarding serious diseases Social performance indicators well-being Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 agreements with trade unions Occupational safety Training and Education ● Average training hours per year per employee by gender and by employee LA10* category Programmes for skills management and ● LA11 lifelong learning Employees receiving regular performance ● LA12 and career development reviews, by gender Social performance indicators Diversity and Equal Opportunity ● Social performance indicators Composition of governance bodies and LA13* breakdown of employees Ratio of basic salary of men to women by ● LA14* employee category Social performance indicators Return to work and retention rates after ● LA15* parental leave, by gender ● Sustainability management Our way of ● Management approach to human rights systems working Investment and procurement practices Percentage and number of significant investment agreements and contracts that ● include human rights clauses or that have HR1* undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners ● that have undergone human rights HR2* screening and actions taken Social performance indicators Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant ● to operations, incl. percentage of HR3* employees trained Non-discrimination 60 SITE_FOOTER Incidents of discrimination and actions ● HR4* taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective ● bargaining may be at significant risk and HR5* actions taken to support these rights Social performance indicators Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for ● child labor and measures taken to HR6* contribute to the elimination of child labor Social performance indicators Forced and compulsory labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory labor and measures ● taken to contribute to the elimination of HR7* forced or compulsory labor Social performance indicators Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures ● concerning aspects of human rights that HR8 are relevant to operations Indigenous rights Number of incidents involving rights of ● HR9 indigenous people and actions taken Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights ● HR10* reviews and/or impact assessments Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved ● HR11* through formal grievance mechanisms Society Sustainability management Our way of ● Management approach to society systems working Local community Percentage of operations with implemented local community ● engagement, impact assessments, and Environmental performance SO1* development programs indicators Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to ● SO2* corruption Percentage of employees trained in anti● SO3* corruption policies and procedures Actions taken in response to incidents of ● SO4* corruption Social performance indicators Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in ● SO5* public policy development and lobbying Social performance indicators Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians ● SO6 and related institutions Social performance indicators Number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and ● Legal SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes Social performance indicators proceedings Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions for ● SO8* non-compliance with laws and regulations Social performance indicators 61 SITE_FOOTER Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local ● SO9* communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant ● potential or actual negative impacts on SO10* local communities Product Responsibility Cooperation Management approach to product ● Sustainability management with responsibility systems stakeholders Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and ● percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such PR1* procedures Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of ● products and services during their life PR2 cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of ● significant products and services subject PR3* to such information requirements Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ● concerning product and service information PR4 and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction and results of customer satisfaction ● Customer PR5 surveys Social performance indicators cooperation Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing ● communications, advertising, promotion PR6* and sponsorship Social performance indicators Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ● concerning marketing communications, PR7 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Customer Privacy Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy ● PR8 and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations ● concerning the provision and use of PR9* products and services 62 SITE_FOOTER * GRI Core indicator Sustainability › GRI › Reporting principles Reporting principles Lemminkäinen’s combined annual report and sustainability Lemminkäinen also participates in the Carbon Disclosure report covers the period 1 January–31 December 2013. Our Project (CDP) survey. The CDP is an international, non-profit annual report is geared towards our most important organisation of institutional investors that studies the impact stakeholders: shareholders, investors, analysts, financiers, of climate change from an investor’s perspective. the media, customers, partners, and personnel. This is our fourth sustainability report and it complies with the GRI G3.1 Calculation principles as well as any exceptions in and reporting framework. We report on sustainability annually. limitations to the calculation methods used have been noted next to the figures in question. If there have been any The materiality matrix guides Lemminkäinen's sustainability changes in the key figures reported, or to their scope, reporting; the company focuses on those themes that are boundaries or measurement techniques, these have also been highlighted in the materiality evaluation. Lemminkäinen’s noted next to the figures in question. latest materiality matrix is from 2012. Lemminkäinen's goal is to perform a stakeholder survey in 2014; the company will The Finnish-language sustainability reporting’s numeric update the materiality matrix based on that survey. sustainability data has been assured by an independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, which has also checked Lemminkäinen’s consolidated financial statements are the English-language version for conformity. drawn up and presented in accordance with IFRS standards. Consolidated financial statements provide the majority of the Lemminkäinen has declared that its reporting is compliant key economic responsibility figures. The consolidated with Application Level B+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked Lemminkäinen's EU-approved IAS and IFRS standards, and the SIC and IFRIC reporting and has confirmed it is compliant with Application interpretations in effect on 31 December 2013. The notes to Level B+. the consolidated financial statements are also drawn up in compliance with the Finnish accounting and corporate legislation supplementing the IFRS standards. Segment reporting is based on management reporting, as per IFRS 8, and therefore deviates in part from the consolidated accounting principles. Comparison figures for 2012 are presented in brackets. Personnel and remuneration data has been obtained during financial reporting and is also published in the financial statements. The data on Finnish employees is supplemented with information from the HR data system. Occupational health figures cover Lemminkäinen's operations in Finland, and occupational safety figures cover all of Lemminkäinen's operations. Absences due to sickness and accidents are calculated on theoretical, regular working hours. Environmental reporting for 2013 covers operations in Finland. The reporting of waste, electricity and water covers the production facility operations subject to permits. The figures have not been adjusted in proportion to production volumes. Lemminkäinen head office in Helsinki implements an environmental management system. The system has WWF Finland’s Green Office label. 63 SITE_FOOTER 64 SITE_FOOTER Sustainability › GRI › Sustainability management systems Sustainability management systems Lemminkäinen wants to grow and develop the company’s business sustainably over the long term. The company operates responsibly and takes the expectations of customers, personnel and other stakeholders into account. The starting point of sustainability management is Lemminkäinen is committed to the Confederation of Finnish Lemminkäinen’s strategy, and it is based on the company’s Construction Industries RT’s target of zero accidents by values, Code of Conduct, and policies and principles defined 2020. at the Group level. The President and CEO is responsible for leading sustainability. The Group’s Executive Team In the daily management of environmental and safety issues discusses these matters regularly, and they are also reported Lemminkäinen utilises management systems that meet the to the Board of Directors. requirements of the international standards ISO 9001:2008 (quality management system), ISO 14001:2004 Lemminkäinen adheres to current legislation in all its (environmental management system) and OHSAS operating countries. The most significant international 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety management regulations and agreements that guide the company's system). operations are: The management systems ensure also that there are the the UN’s Declaration of Human Rights; required resources for every stage of the projects and that work is completed on time and in accordance with the the UN’s Global Compact initiative in the field of corporate responsibility, promoting human rights, labour customer’s order. Lemminkäinen has separate management rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption; systems for each business segment. The ILO’s employment rights and principles; Social responsibility management systems the OECD’s operational guidelines for multinational Lemminkäinen’s social responsibility management has been companies; and decentralised. Human resources management is led by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Executive Vice President, HR and ICT. Lemminkäinen’s HR recommendations. policy aims to ensure that the company has the competent, motivated and satisfied personnel required by the operational Financial responsibility management systems targets. A detailed description of the financial responsibility The goal of Group-level policies and principles, such as the management systems can be found in the Corporate equality action plan, is to promote fairness and to ensure Governance Statement. equal treatment. Compliance with Group-level policies and principles is managed and monitored within the scope of line Environmental and safety management systems operations. Responsibility for the Group’s environmental and Also Lemminkäinen’s partner and supplier network is occupational safety issues is held by an Executive Team expected to comply with laws, international human rights, member and at the business segment level by an labour rights, environmental regulations and Lemminkäinen's environmental and/or quality manager. The Head of Code of Conduct. In addition, Lemminkäinen requires all its Environment and Safety, coordinates operations at the Group subcontractors to adhere to the Act on the Contractor’s level and between businesses. In addition, she leads the Obligations and Liability When Work Is Contracted Out when EHSQ group in which the EHSQ managers of the businesses operating in Finland. The Executive Vice President, meet on a regular basis. At the EHSQ meetings, Procurement, is responsible for the partner and supplier Lemminkäinen’s operations are developed across business network. boundaries and best practices are shared. Legal affairs are coordinated by a Group-level unit 65 SITE_FOOTER in order to promote consistent practices. The Senior Vice Lemminkäinen uses the SpeakUp service through which both President, Legal Affairs, is responsible for this. Furthermore, Lemminkäinen employees and external stakeholders can more detailed guidelines about competition law and insider report any suspected violation of the Code of Conduct. issues are provided to complement the Code of Conduct. Business management is responsible for monitoring Product responsibility is led by Executive Vice Presidents of compliance with these guidelines, and internal training on Lemminkäinen's business segments. They are responsible for them is also provided.Lemminkäinen has zero tolerance with customer service and they supervise that Lemminkäinen’s regard to activities violating the competition legislation. products and marketing comply with law and regulations. Sustainability › GRI › Economic performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and also have an effect on the costs of the company’s contracts. Of these raw materials, bitumen is the most important. distributed Bitumen is one of Lemminkäinen’s biggest purchases on the Lemminkäinen analyses the economic impact of its annual level. The price of bitumen is tied to the global price of operations at the Group level. The company’s key oil. A rise in the price of bitumen affects the profitability of stakeholders are customers, employees, shareholders and the company’s paving production. Lemminkäinen manages financiers, suppliers and partners and the public sector. the bitumen price risk with oil derivatives and contractual terms. In order to protect the company from this risk, the use More detailed information on Lemminkäinen’s financial of alternative materials in the production must also be impact can be found in the section discussing economic researched. responsibility. Lemminkäinen continuously develops the material and EC2 Financial implications and other risks and energy efficiency of its production. In mineral aggregate opportunities for the organisation’s activities due extraction, for example, the company takes an area's to climate change potential after-use into consideration already at the planning stage. By recycling asphalt, the company also saves virgin Climate change risk analyses and financial impact materials. Waste is one of the most significant assessments have been integrated into Lemminkäinen environmental impacts caused by construction sites, and Group’s risk management processes. Lemminkäinen has not Lemminkäinen is striving to achieve a high level of waste defined the financial implications of climate change in euros. sorting at its sites. This enables the company to reduce the amount of waste that ends up in landfill sites and ensures In 2010, Lemminkäinen started to calculate its energy effective re-use and recycling of materials. efficiency and carbon footprint at the Group level. At the moment, these calculations cover the production facilities in Climate change – and unusual weather conditions in Finland. Lemminkäinen’s goal is to extend these indicators to particular – may have an effect on Lemminkäinen’s working cover project production throughout Finland and then all conditions by, for example, interrupting or delaying the operating countries as soon as the Group's information projects or the start of the operational season, which can systems allow. Lemminkäinen aims to calculate how reduce the profitability of projects. The cold, snowy winters efficiently it uses energy in its processes. With this of recent years have increased heating costs and have information, Lemminkäinen will be able to make estimates of shortened the company’s standard operational season. In future trends in our energy consumption and emissions. 2013, the prolonged winter delayed the start of the paving Production facilities, traffic and transportation are the most season in all of our operating area. In order to reduce the notable sources of the company’s emissions. impact of weather conditions to its paving operations, Lemminkäinen has started to offer non-seasonal Risks associated with the availability of exhaustible raw maintenance in both Finland and the company’s other materials have an impact on Lemminkäinen’s costs. Rises operating countries. and fluctuations in the price of raw materials 66 SITE_FOOTER Legislation and voluntary certification (such as LEED, Lemminkäinen believes that meeting the challenges of BREEAM and PromisE) have an impact on the energy climate change with new energy-efficient solutions, services efficiency of buildings and infrastructure. Due to the risks and products will also give the company a competitive and assumptions arising from climate change, uncertain advantage. outlooks and the changing socio-economic situation, increasingly stricter legislation is being employed to promote EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations energy-efficient products, services and construction. Stricter Lemminkäinen’s pension schemes are discussed in legislation – and also customers’ and consumers’ growing connection with the management’s remuneration and in the demands – may have a significant cost impact for products notes to the financial statements under Pension obligations. and services. For example, an increase in fuel tax or fuel prices may lower the cost-effectiveness of Lemminkäinen’s EC4 Significant subsidies received from the production facilities and transportation. Lemminkäinen strives to minimise this risk by enhancing its traffic and government transportation logistics. In 2013, Lemminkäinen received EUR 113,677 (2012: EUR 281,927) in financial assistance for development projects Lemminkäinen takes into account its customers’, investors’, from the Finnish government. consumers’ and partners’ increased interest in environmentally friendly products and material and energy EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts efficiency. Lemminkäinen has, for example, developed a dense asphalt that protects the ground from chemicals and Lemminkäinen contributes to general well-being in society other hazardous substances. Lemminkäinen aims to by, for example, providing employment and paying taxes, constantly increase the percentage of low-temperature and salaries and social security contributions. recycled asphalts in its production. The company is stepping More detailed information on Lemminkäinen’s economic up to meet the challenges posed by climate change with the impact can be found in the section discussing economic aid of new technical solutions that enhance the quality and responsibility. energy efficiency of construction, and by developing end-toend solutions to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. Sustainability › GRI › Environmental performance indicators Environmental performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption Lemminkäinen uses non-renewable energy sources as its direct energy sources. Direct energy consumption, Finland GWh 2013 2012 2011 Light fuel oil 138 162 133 Heavy fuel oil 84 85 101 Natural gas 38 60 59 Liquefied petroleum gas* 2 2 n/a Total 262 309 293 * Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) was added to the data for 2012–2013 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 67 SITE_FOOTER Indirect energy consumption, production facilities Finland GWh 2013 2012 2011 Electricity 26 26 19 District heating* n/a n/a 1.7 Total 26 26 20.7 * District heating was removed from the 2012–2013 reporting, as it was used only at concrete plants Our indirect energy consumption is based on consolidated environmental impact assessment (EIA). Lemminkäinen did Group purchases for 2013. not launch any EIA projects during the reporting year. The EIA procedures and careful planning helps Lemminkäinen to EN8 Total water withdrawal by source safeguard biodiversity. During the reporting year, Lemminkäinen used an Lemminkäinen conducts our own environmental risk estimated 294,000 m3 (155,000) of water in the assessment for projects that do not legally require an production facilities of the paving and mineral aggregates environmental permit. These assessments seek to predict operations. The company use some water for dust any detrimental environmental impact, enabling the company suppression and for drilling in rock engineering. Whenever to target the necessary precautions correctly. possible, Lemminkäinen's construction sites use also surface water, which the company cannot accurately measure. Lemminkäinen continually monitor the impact its operations have on the environment. To the company's knowledge, no Lemminkäinen's business operations do not currently employ serious environmental incidents occurred in 2013. At any processes that consume high volumes of water. Lemminkäinen's site in Forssa, an oil spill occurred in connection with refuelling. The surroundings have been EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity cleaned of the traces of the incident in cooperation with Lemminkäinen's mineral aggregates and paving operations in authorities. Finland require permits. At Lemminkäinen, these permits are coordinated by a separate team that supports production. In EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Finland, Lemminkäinen has a total of 306 permits, including emissions mineral aggregates and environmental permits as well as Lemminkäinen continually seeks to reduce airborne registrations of asphalt plants. emissions from its production facilities. Lemminkäinen aims In 2013, Lemminkäinen was granted 41 new permits for our to employ the industry’s best available technology, such as operations. The Environmental Protection Act defines those chimney filters, which reduce the volume of rock dust, projects that also require a separate sulphur and nitrogen dioxide released into the air. Calculated emissions, Finland t 2013 2012 2011 Scope 1, From energy consumed and own transportation 76,600 86,100 83,000 Scope 2, From purchased electricity and district heating* 5,200 5,700 4,600 Total CO₂ emissions, Scopes 1 + 2 81,800 91,800 87,600 The following CO₂ emissions coefficients have been used when calculating the emissions for these forms of energy: Light fuel oil 267 g/kWh; heavy fuel oil 284 g/kWh; natural gas 198 g/kWh, diesel 265 g/kWh and petroleum 265g/kWh (source: Motiva) * Electricity, purchased 203 g/kWh (source: IEA, 5-year average 2009–2011). The coefficient for purchased electricity is obtained annually from data published by the IEA. We have defined CO₂ as the most significant greenhouse gas. These emissions are generated by both transportation and energy consumption in our own operations. Scope 1 emissions cover the entire Group’s energy consumption and all the vehicles and fuel cards that we own. Scope 2 covers the emissions generated during the production of electricity and district heating at our production facilities. Our scope 3 coverage is currently being defined. In addition to CO₂, we also cause environmental loading through, for example, noise, dust, vibration and odour pollution, and SOx, NOx and small particle emissions. EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal method 68 SITE_FOOTER Waste, production facilities Finland 2013 Production facilities Recycled, reused and incinerated waste, % 73.4 Recycle, reuse and incinerated waste, t 756,000 Landfill waste, % 26.6 Landfill waste, t 274,000 The recycling, reuse and incineration rate includes all waste that is recycled, reused and incinerated as a percentage of total waste. The landfill rate includes all waste that ends up in landfills as a percentage of total waste. Hazardous waste has been included in recycling, as it is being reused. Reports do not include demolition waste and excavated materials. The amount of mixed waste is based on capacity of waste container / emptying. EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation products and services Lemminkäinen is continually striving to optimise transportation and ensure its efficiency. Lemminkäinen Read more about the environmental impacts of utilises systems that enable the company to reduce Lemminkäinen's products and services. unnecessary driving and pay attention to idling. EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for nonLemminkäinen uses videoconferencing to reduce business compliance with environmental regulations travel. Emissions caused by business trips are reported as part of our head office’s Green Office reporting. They account Lemminkäinen received no significant fines or sanctions in for an estimated 1–2 per cent of the total emissions caused 2013. by Lemminkäinen's operations in Finland. In autumn 2013, the National Bureau of Investigation The emissions limit for company vehicles is 150g CO2/km. launched an investigation with regard to the terms and conditions of the environmental permit of Lemminkäinen’s asphalt plants in Sammonmäki. Lemminkäinen is cooperating with the authorities in this matter. Traffic and transportation GWh 2013 2012 2011 Energy consumption 31 27 25 Transportation causes CO₂, SOx, and NOx emissions as well as noise and dust pollution. CO₂ emissions are reported as part of our EN 16 indicator (scope 1). Our reporting covers our own vehicles’ fuel consumption in our domestic operations. Traffic and transportation includes all vehicles used on public highways. We reduce the environmental impact of traffic and transportation by paying attention to the optimisation and efficiency of transportation and by servicing our vehicles regularly. We avoid idling, and we choose machinery and equipment that are appropriate for the intended use. We take extra care to protect the ground on aprons, to prevent oils, fuels and solvents from contaminating the soil and groundwater. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures investments of approximately EUR 100,000 million. They were associated with the operational improvements at our and investments production facilities. Lemminkäinen made environmental Sustainability › GRI › Social performance indicators Social performance indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region In 2013, Lemminkäinen employed an average of 7,800 experts (8,200) in 8 countries. 63% of Lemminkäinen employees worked in Finland. AGE DISTRIBUTION, FINLAND, AT 31 DEC. 69 SITE_FOOTER 1,000 750 500 250 0 < 20 20 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55 59 60 63 > 63 2011 2012 2013 70 SITE_FOOTER PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT, FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT, FINLAND, AT 31 DEC., % FINLAND, AT 31 DEC., % 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 0 0 12 13 12 13 Permanent Full-time Temporary Part-time PERSONNEL ON AVERAGE PERSONNEL BY MARKET AREA 10,000 7,500 5,000 2,500 0 09 10 11 12 13 Finland, 63% (63%) Other Nordic countries, 16% (16%) Baltic countries, 10% (10%) Russia and Eastern Europe, 10% (8%) Other countries, 1% (3%) PERSONNEL BY BUSINESS SEGMENT PERSONNEL BY EMPLOYMENT GROUP International Operations, 38% (37%) Building Construction, 18% (17%) Infrastructure Construction, 19% (21%) Technical Building Services, 21% (21%) Hourly paid workers, 62% (63%) Corporate functions, 4% (4%) Salaried staff, 38% (37%) LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 71 SITE_FOOTER LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region Personnel turnover, Finland, permanent employees % 2013 2012 Personnel turnover (outgoing) Employments ended / number of personnel at 31 Dec. 10.6 12.0 Personnel turnover (ingoing) Employments began / number of personnel at 31 Dec. 9.6 7.6 Average personnel turnover Employments ended and began / 2 / number of personnel at 31 Dec. 10.1 9.8 Reason for departure (permanent personnel) by category, % Due to retirement 13.3 14.1 At own request 46.1 52.3 Employer ended 40.0 33.2 Due to death 0.6 0.5 Due to the seasonal nature of our business, the number of our employees varies monthly and is at its lowest level at the end of the year. The information by agegroup, gender or region breakdown is required by labour legislation and collective labour not available. agreements. Minimum periods of notice vary depending on the employees’ collective agreements and the length of time LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements they have worked for Lemminkäinen. Our employment contracts comply with current labour legislation. In 2013, all of our hourly paid and salaried LA6 Percentage of employees represented in joint employees in Finland – over 89 per cent of the Finnish health and safety committees personnel – were covered by collective labour agreements. No Occupational safety and health committees enable collective labour agreements, nor any other collective Lemminkäinen's employees to have a say in issues related to agreements, have been agreed on with senior salaried safety and health care in their workplace. 100% of employees and management. Lemminkäinen's employees are represented in the committees. A joint meeting of all of the Group’s LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational occupational safety and health committee representatives is changes held once a year. All of Lemminkäinen's employees’ employment contracts contain a period of notice equal to at least the minimum LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, fatalities and absenteeism 72 SITE_FOOTER LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, fatalities and absenteeism Absence due to accident, Finland 2013 2012 2011 2010 All personnel 0.29 0.24 0.32 0.47 Salaried employees 0.02 0.06 0.08 0.03 Hourly paid employees 0.46 0.34 0.49 0.73 Corporate functions 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.02 Building Construction 0.35 0.32 0.32 0.57 Infrastructure Construction 0.23 0.17 0.26 0.27 Technical Building Services 0.36 0.23 0.44 0.65 International Operations, personnel on the payroll in Finland 0.07 0.18 0.00 Accident frequency rate 2013 2012 2011 2010 Lemminkäinen Group* 16.3 22.0 n/a n/a Lemminkäinen’s domestic operations 23.2 28.7 35.4 32.1 Corporate functions 0.0 3.9 0.0 2.5 Building construction 19.1 33.1 34.3 33.9 Infrastructure construction 14.4 18.4 17.4 17.8 Technical building services 41.6 41.1 62.6 52.5 International operations* 5.3 5.1 n/a n/a Fatal accidents 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 Accident frequency rate: the number of accidents resulting in an absence of more than one day per million working hours. Includes own staff. * Operations in Russia were not included in 2012 reports. Absence due to sickness, Finland % 2013 2012 2011 2010 All personnel 3.32 3.60 3.80 3.89 Salaried employees 1.52 1.81 1.84 1.82 Hourly paid employees 4.42 4.68 4.93 5.10 Corporate functions 2.35 2.85 2.43 2.46 Building Construction 3.07 3.19 3.29 3.55 Infrastructure Construction 2.57 2.77 2.87 2.89 Technical Building Services 4.52 4.99 5.40 5.54 International Operations, personnel on the payroll in Finland 0.78 0.94 1.94 LA8 Education and prevention programmes Social Insurance Institute of Finland’s early rehabilitation for minor health problems. regarding serious diseases Lemminkäinen believes that the best results can be achieved Lemminkäinen support its personnel’s leisure-time exercise with the combination of the early support model, professional in many ways. For example, in Finland Lemminkäinen offers rehabilitation and occupational healthcare. Through regular all of its personnel an exercise card. monitoring, Lemminkäinen evaluates the risks associated with the personnel’s work capacity and implement preventive LA11 Programmes for skills management and measures. In Finland Lemminkäinen conducts a Sante health lifelong learning survey as part of health check-ups and comprehensive In order to support competence development, we offer occupational healthcare. According to the survey, customised training to all personnel groups. Our personnel Lemminkäinen's personnel’s greatest health risks are excess also have the chance to participate in other training weight, diabetes, sleeping disorders, alcohol and smoking. organised by our external partners. Due to Lemminkäinen's The most common symptom predicting work disability is efficiency measures in 2013, training was reduced. musculoskeletal disorders. Lemminkäinen's occupational healthcare unit supports the solving of health problems either The PAKKI training programme promotes occupational individually or in groups. safety and skills that ensure top-quality results – in short, it provides mandatory competence training. A total of 926 In 2013, Lemminkäinen launched two new ASLAK groups, (984) people attended PAKKI courses held in 2013. for salaried employees in Finland. ASLAK is the LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 73 SITE_FOOTER The Lemminkäinen supervisor academy LEKA was LA13 Composition of governance bodies and established to support supervisors in implementing Lemminkäinen's strategy. As the previous strategy period breakdown of employees ended in 2013, training was organised only early in the year. Lemminkäinen’s Code of Conduct requires our personnel to A total of 86 (367) supervisors and managers took part in be treated equally. Lemminkäinen does not condone any form LEKA training. of discrimination on the basis of race, religion, political beliefs, gender, age, nationality, language or sexual The VIILA programme supplements LEKA training. Training orientation. organised in 2013 was related to Lean Six Sigma, competition law and project management, for instance. In addition, Lemminkäinen has a separate equality action There were in total of 287 (666) participants in VIILA plan as well as guidelines to identify and prevent workplace courses. In addition, Lemminkäinen organised training bullying. Lemminkäinen's equality action plan promotes a related to new enterprise resource planning system. diverse personnel structure, salary consistency, the suitability of working conditions for the entire personnel and equal Read more about competence development. opportunities for career development, among other things. Lemminkäinen follows the realisation of equality in employee LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and survey annually. career development reviews The share of women in the Group’s Executive Team was 22 Development discussions are an important management tool per cent. In 2013, the Executive Team had nine members, for Lemminkäinen. They help the company to set personal two of them were women. and team targets, monitor the achievement of these goals, and evaluate personnel’s development needs. The share of women in the Lemminkäinen Board of Directors was 33 per cent. In 2013, Lemminkäinen’s Board of The goal is for each Lemminkäinen employee to have an Directors had six members, two of them were women. annual career development discussion. GENDER DISTRIBUTION, FINLAND, 31 DEC. Male, 89% Female, 11% HR2 Suppliers and contractors that have Lemminkäinen audits its suppliers when the company wants to ensure the performance of a potential major supplier, or undergone human rights screening and actions when the company wants to identify areas for development taken with current suppliers.There was no need for auditing in In accordance with its Code of Conduct, Lemminkäinen 2013. requires all of its supplier to comply with legislation and international regulations concerning human rights, employment rights and the environment. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to 74SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians SITE_FOOTER HR5 Operations identified in which the right to SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians exercise the freedom of association or collective and related institutions bargaining may be at significant risk and actions Lemminkäinen does not donate money to political parties or taken to support these rights activities, religious organisations, authorities, municipalities, or local administrations. Lemminkäinen has not identified operations nor significant suppliers, where the right to exercise the freedom of association or collective bargaining would be at significant SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, risk. anti-trust, and monopoly practices On 28 November 2013, the District Court of Helsinki gave its HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk decisions on the legal proceedings concerning damages of child labour and measures taken to contribute to related to the asphalt cartel. For Lemminkäinen, the the elimination of child labour decisions given concerned the claims of 38 municipalities and the Finnish state. According to the District Court, Lemminkäinen has not identified operations nor significant Lemminkäinen’s share of the damages is approximately EUR suppliers, which are involved significant risks of child labour. 48 million (damages of approximately EUR 26 million as well as interest and legal expenses of approximately EUR 22 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk million). Lemminkäinen paid damages to 35 municipalities, of forced or compulsory labour and measures taken but not to the Finnish state. to contribute to the elimination of forced or Lemminkäinen has deemed the claims for damages to be compulsory labour without foundation. Lemminkäinen and other parties have Lemminkäinen has not identified operations nor significant until 31 March 2014 to submit possible appeals to the Court suppliers, which are involved significant risks of forced of Appeals. labour. SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for nonSO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of compliance with laws and regulations corruption Lemminkäinen Infra Oy was ordered by a District Court to pay Lemminkäinen’s Code of Conduct prohibits corruption. The a EUR 30,000 corporate fine for a breach of occupational company regularly communicate about our Code of Conduct safety that was related to a subcontractor accident at one of to our personnel. Lemminkäinen's sites in 2009. In 2013, no incidents of corruption were detected at PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction and Lemminkäinen. results of customer satisfaction surveys SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Lemminkäinen tracks its customer satisfaction with public policy development and lobbying international NPS (Net Promoter Score) customer satisfaction survey. In 2013, the survey was conducted in Lemminkäinen exercises political influence in general through Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and the Baltic countries. the industry’s advocacy groups. Lemminkäinen actively Russia was not included in the survey this time. participates in the Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries RT and other associations that represent its In 2013, Lemminkäinen’s net promoter score decreased to business segments, such as Infra ry and the Building 23.4 (29.3). However, the share of unsatisfied customers Construction Association. Lemminkäinen is also involved has not increased. Instead, the number of neutral customers with corresponding associations in other operating countries. has increased; in other words, the customer commitment rate has decreased. During the planning and implementation of some significant projects, Lemminkäinen's representatives meet also decision The survey results are used to draw up countryand business makers. segment-specific action plans, which Lemminkäinen uses to continuously develop its operations. PR6 Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary 75 SITE_FOOTER PR6 Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary the web pages, customer magazine and newsletters. The advertising focuses on creating recognition for the range of codes related to marketing communications, solutions and services, and it complies with the guidelines of advertising, promotion and sponsorship the International Chamber of Commerce ICC. In addition to meeting with the customers, Lemminkäinen also keeps them informed about current issues through Sustainability › GRI › Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish original) In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance To the Management of Lemminkäinen Corporation engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance We have been engaged by the Management of Lemminkäinen Corporation to perform a limited assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain engagement on the numeric information on economic, social evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the and environmental responsibility for the reporting period Responsibility Reporting. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, disclosed in the Annual Report 2013 of Lemminkäinen Corporation risks of material misstatement of the Responsibility (hereinafter “Responsibility Reporting”). Reporting. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: Management’s Responsibility Interviewing senior management of Lemminkäinen The Management of Lemminkäinen Corporation is Corporation responsible for preparing the Responsibility Reporting in Visiting the Head Office of Lemminkäinen Corporation accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in the as well as four sites in Finland Lemminkäinen Corporation reporting instructions and the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Interviewing employees responsible for collection and reporting of the information presented in the Reporting Initiative. Responsibility Reporting at the Lemminkäinen Group level and at the different sites where our visits took Practitioner’s Responsibility place Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Assessing how Lemminkäinen Group employees apply Responsibility Reporting based on our work performed. Our the Lemminkäinen Corporation reporting instructions assurance report has been made in accordance with the and procedures terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or assume Testing the accuracy and completeness of the responsibility to anyone else, except to Lemminkäinen information from original documents and systems on a Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions sample basis that we have reached. Testing the consolidation of information and We conducted our work in accordance with the International performing recalculations on a sample basis. Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Conclusion “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. This Standard requires that Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform to our attention that causes us to believe that the the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance Responsibility Reporting has not been prepared, in all whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. believe that the Responsibility Reporting has not been When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability Reporting criteria. information should be taken into consideration. 76 SITE_FOOTER Helsinki, 6 March, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Partner Director, Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability & Sustainability & Climate Change Climate Change 77 SITE_FOOTER Corporate Governance › Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement Lemminkäinen Corporation is a Finnish public listed company to the company’s Articles of Association. The AGM also whose administration complies with current legislation, such elects the members of the Board of Directors and the as the Finnish Companies Act, the Accounting Act and the auditors, and decides on their remuneration. Finnish Securities Market Act, and the company’s Articles of Association. We also observe the rules, regulations and Lemminkäinen aims to have the President & CEO, the guidelines of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd and the Finnish auditor, and all members of the company’s Board of Directors Financial Supervisory Authority, and we adhere to the Finnish and Group Executive Team present at the AGM. Unless there Corporate Governance Code. is a pressing reason for their absence, any prospective members of the Board of Directors who have been nominated Lemminkäinen’s administrative bodies for the first time should be present at the AGM that votes on their nomination. The General Meeting is where shareholders exercise their voting rights and is Lemminkäinen’s highest decision2013 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting making body. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) elects the was held in Helsinki on 9 April 2013. Ninety-seven Board of Directors, which in turn appoints the President & shareholders attended the meeting, either in person or CEO. The Board of Directors and the President & CEO are through an authorised representative, representing about 65 responsible for the management of the Group. The Group per cent of the company’s total number of shares and votes. Executive Team and other management personnel assist the President & CEO in his or her duties. The Board of Directors Board of Directors decides on the Group’s administrative systems and ensures Lemminkäinen Corporation’s AGM elects at least four and at compliance with good governance principles. most eight members each year to serve on the company’s Board of Directors, which elects a Chairman and Vice Annual General Meeting Chairman from among its members. The Board members’ Lemminkäinen’s AGM is held annually within six months of terms of office end upon the conclusion of the first AGM held the end of the previous financial year on a date determined by after their election. the Board of Directors. An Extraordinary General Meeting may be held if the Board of Directors deems it necessary, or if one The Board of Directors handles the company’s administration is legally required. and the appropriate arrangement of its operations. The Board also ensures that the supervision of bookkeeping and asset Notice of a general meeting of shareholders is published on management is appropriate. The Board of Directors decides the company’s website. In addition, the Board of Directors on matters of principle and on any issues that would have may decide to publish the notice in a newspaper. Notice of a wide-ranging implications for the company. The Board’s task general meeting of shareholders must be published no earlier is to steer the company’s operations in a manner that adds than three months and no later than three weeks prior to the the greatest possible value to the capital invested in the meeting, and in any case at least nine days before the company over the long term. The Board appoints and meeting’s record date. All of Lemminkäinen’s shareholders dismisses the President & CEO, supervises his or her actions, have the right to attend general meetings, as long as they and decides on his or her remuneration and other terms and follow the instructions given in the notice. Shareholders may conditions of service. The Board also approves the Group’s either attend in person or authorise a representative to strategy, operating principles and guiding values, as well as represent them. Each share carries one vote at a general ensures that they are up-to-date and correctly implemented. meeting. The Board also ensures that the Group has a functional system of internal controls and that the Group’s risk The AGM carries out all of the tasks stipulated in the management principles have been defined. It also ensures Companies Act, such as adoption of the Financial that key business risks have been identified and are being Statements, profit distribution, granting discharge from systematically monitored. The Board approves the liability to the members of the Board of Directors and the operational guidelines and annual plan for the internal audit, President & CEO, and making any potential changes and also assesses its effectiveness. 78 SITE_FOOTER Lemminkäinen’s President & CEO attends the Board’s most important agenda topics included approving the new meetings to present matters for the Board’s consideration, as strategy for 2014–2018, improving Lemminkäinen’s does the CFO. Other members of the Executive Team and the profitability and strengthening its financial position. At its company’s management attend meetings as required. meetings, the Board also discussed updates to the Group’s treasury policy and financial reporting processes. In addition, 2013 At the Annual General Meeting held on 9 April 2013, the Board discussed the legal proceedings concerning the following were elected as members of the Board of damages related to the asphalt cartel and their impact on Directors: Berndt Brunow, Noora Forstén, Finn Johnsson, Lemminkäinen. Juhani Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel and Heikki Räty. At its organisational meeting on 9 April 2013, the Board The Board carried out a self-assessment of its structure, appointed from among its members Berndt Brunow as working methods, and compliance with its rules of procedure. Chairman and Juhani Mäkinen as Vice Chairman. The Board The results of this self-assessment are used to develop the of Directors met 13 times in 2013. Each member’s Board’s working methods. The Board also assessed the attendance is shown in the table below. The Board’s independence of its members. Members of the Board of Directors Independent Independent of the of major Board of Audit Nomination HR Members company shareholders Directors Committee Committee Committee Berndt Brunow, born 1950 Yes Yes Chair Chair Member2) B.Sc. (Econ.) (13/13) (2/2) (1/1)Chair1) (4/4) Juhani Mäkinen, born 1956 Yes Yes Vice Member Counsellor of Law, Attorney (13/13) (4/5) Noora Forstén, born 1981 Yes No Member Member Member Secondary School Graduate, (13/13) (2/2) (5/5) entrepreneur Finn Johnsson1), born 1946 Yes Yes Member1) M.Sc. (Econ.) (9/9) Mikael Mäkinen2), born 1956 Yes Yes Member2) Chair2) M.Sc. (Eng.). (4/4) (1/1) Director, Marine, Cargotec Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, born 1978, Yes No Member Member Member Member1) M.Sc. (Econ.), B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.). (13/13) (5/5) (2/2) (4/4) Director, Libera Heikki Räty, born 1953, Yes Yes Member Chair M.Sc. (Econ.), (13/13) (5/5) Managing Director, Helectron Oy Ab Chair=Chairman, Vice=Vice Chairman 1) As of 9 April 2013 2) Until 9 April 2013 3) Attendance rate in brackets Board committees Audit Committee At its annual organisational meeting, the Board of Directors The Audit Committee monitors and supervises appoints three committees from among its members: the Lemminkäinen’s annual statements and financial reporting Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, and HR processes and the statutory audit of the consolidated and Committee. These committees assist the Board of Directors parent company’s Financial Statements. The Committee by preparing and drawing up proposals and recommendations monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk for the Board’s consideration. The Board of Directors has management, internal control and internal auditing. It also approved the rules of procedure governing these committees. handles the section of the Group’s Corporate Governance Statement that describes the main features of the internal control and risk management systems associated with 79 SITE_FOOTER the financial reporting process. The Committee made a proposal containing a list of proposed nominees for Lemminkäinen’s Board and a recommendation The Audit Committee deals with reports and plans prepared for the fees to be paid both to Board and Committee by the internal audit. It also assesses the independence of the members. The AGM approved the Nomination Committee’s statutory auditor or firm of authorised public accountants proposal, which was presented by the Chairman of the Board and, in particular, the provision of ancillary services to the of Directors on 9 April 2013. audited firm. The Audit Committee evaluates potential auditors and submits a proposal for the Board of Directors’ HR Committee consideration. The HR Committee handles matters relating to senior The Audit Committee meets at least four times per annum. It management’s salaries and incentives, as well as other key comprises a Chairman and at least two members appointed terms and conditions of their service agreements. The by the Board of Directors. The company’s auditor, internal Committee also deals with Group-level remuneration, auditor and management representatives are also invited to incentive and retention schemes as well as other HR issues. meetings. Members of the Audit Committee must be independent of the company, and at least one member must The HR Committee meets at least once per annum. It also be independent of the company’s major shareholders. All consists of a Chairman and between two and four members members must be competent in the Audit Committee’s task appointed by the Board of Directors. The majority of the domain, and at least one member must have expertise in members of the HR Committee must be independent of the accountancy, bookkeeping or auditing in particular. company. The President & CEO and other members of the company’s management may not be members of the 2013 The Audit Committee convened five times. The Committee. members and their meeting attendance are presented in the Members of the Board of Directors table. 2013 The HR Committee convened five times. The members and their meeting attendance are presented in the Members In addition to mandatory items, other matters discussed by of the Board of Directors table. the Audit Committee included treasury policy, financial arrangements, and progress in the Group’s efficiency At its meetings, the HR Committee discussed management improvement programme. The Committee also discussed the incentive practices, shortand long-term management progress of the implementation of the ERP system and other incentives for 2012 and 2013, the elements and earning measures aimed at the improvement of financial reporting. criteria of shortand long-term incentives in 2014, and who The Committee also evaluated the financial implications of falls within the scope of the management incentive scheme legal proceedings concerning damages related to the asphalt in 2013 and 2014. The Committee drew up a list of cartel. remuneration recommendations, which was approved by the Board of Directors. Nomination Committee Management The Nomination Committee makes preparations for the AGM by drawing up a list of proposed nominees for the Board of President & CEO Directors and making a recommendation for their fees. The President & CEO is responsible for the day-to-day The Nomination Committee meets at least once per annum. management of the company in line with the Board of It consists of a Chairman and between two and four Directors’ guidelines and instructions. He or she is members appointed by the Board of Directors. The majority of responsible for the Group’s day-to-day administration and the members of the Nomination Committee must be business planning. The President & CEO undertakes the independent of the company. The President & CEO and other execution of measures approved by the Board of Directors members of the company’s management may not be and handles preparations for any measures that are members of the Committee. strategically important at the Group level. The President & CEO makes sure that the Group has adequate management 2013 The Nomination Committee convened twice. The resources and the company’s bookkeeping complies with members and their meeting attendance are presented in the legislation. He or she also ensures the appropriate Members of the Board of Directors table. arrangement of the Group’s administration and asset management. 80 SITE_FOOTER Timo Kohtamäki, Lic. Tech., (b. 1963) has served as construction in Finland, the Baltic countries and project President & CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation since 2009. exports); Marcus Karsten (Building construction in Finland); Casimir Lindholm (Building construction in Finland) as well Executive Team as Tiina Mellas, Executive Vice President, HR and ICT; Tiina Mikander, Chief Strategy Officer; Jouni Pekonen, Executive Lemminkäinen’s Group Executive Team consists of the Vice President, Procurement; and Robert Öhman, CFO. Henrik parent company’s President & CEO and other members Eklund, Executive Vice President, International Operations, appointed by the Board of Directors. The President & CEO is was a member of the Executive Team until 8 August 2013. Chairman of the Executive Team and appoints its secretary. On the same date, Executive Vice President Timo Vikström The Executive Team meets at least once a month and (Scandinavia) and on 1 January 2014 Executive Vice supports the President & CEO in, for example, the preparation President Maaret Heiskari (Russia) became new members of and execution of strategic matters, operating plans as well as the Executive Team. matters of principle and any other significant matters. The The Executive Team met regularly on a monthly basis as well Executive Team also assists the President & CEO in ensuring as held additional meetings dealing with strategy and information flow and smooth internal cooperation. business planning. The Executive Team’s key topics during 2013 Timo Kohtamäki continued as Lemminkäinen’s 2013 were improving the efficiency of operations, lightening President & CEO and Chairman of the Executive Team in the cost structure and the company’s new strategy for 2013. The other members of the Executive Team were 2014–2018. Executive Vice Presidents Harri Kailasalo (Infrastructure Controls Internal control and risk management seek to ensure that the company’s business is efficient and profitable, that reporting The principles of the internal control, risk management and is consistent and reliable, and that applicable laws, internal audit adhered to by Lemminkäinen Corporation have regulations and the Group’s operating principles are been approved by the Board of Directors. observed. 81 SITE_FOOTER strategy and annual planning processes and through its Internal control decisions. The Board’s Audit Committee monitors the The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management Group’s internal control and risk management are adequate in accordance with the annual Action Plan. for the scope of the company’s business operations, and that their supervision is appropriately organised. The Board The President & CEO is responsible for the implementation of supervises the President & CEO to ensure that he or she risk management. The CFO holds primary responsibility for handles the company’s business operations and managing financial risks with support from business administration in accordance with the guidelines and segment management. Legal affairs are coordinated in a instructions issued by the Board of Directors. In order to centralised manner in order to promote consistent practices ensure adequate risk management, the Board of Directors and to ensure the management of legal risks. Personnel discusses the Group’s financial reports, business segment receive regular training in legal and contractual matters. reviews and any substantial changes that have occurred in Detailed guidelines for different areas, such as competition the company’s business. The Board’s Audit Committee also law and insider issues, have also been drawn up. Monitoring assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of internal compliance with these guidelines falls within the scope of control and risk management. line operations and management, and internal training on them is also provided. The heads of business segments, units The President & CEO is responsible for the organisation of and areas are responsible for executing risk management internal control. Among other duties, he or she ensures that policy in their own organisations. the company’s bookkeeping complies with the law and that asset management is handled in a reliable manner. The main features of internal control and risk Lemminkäinen’s business is organised into business management systems associated with the segments whose Executive Vice Presidents report to the financial reporting process President & CEO. The Group’s other directors and managers Internal control associated with the financial reporting are responsible for internal control within their own areas of process aims to ensure that the company’s management has responsibility. sufficient and accurate information available for leading the company and that the financial reports published by the Lemminkäinen controls and monitors its functions to ensure company give a true view of the company’s business their efficiency and appropriateness, primarily through development and financial position. The internal control financial reports and business reviews prepared by function also monitors reporting to ensure that it is handled management in the business area, business segment and at in accordance with set timetables. the Group level. The structure and management of Lemminkäinen’s financial Risk management reporting process Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s business operations. Risk management seeks to ensure that In Finland, Lemminkäinen’s financial administration is strategic and operational targets are achieved and organised into the Financial Shared Services function shareholder value is increased. (including the Group-level accounting function), the Group Controlling function and segment-specific business Lemminkäinen’s risk management is based on the risk controlling functions. Foreign subsidiaries have separate management policy approved by the Board of Directors in financial administration organisations. All of the units 2011. The Board also supervises the implementation of risk mentioned above report to the Group’s CFO. management. The Board defines the Group’s risk appetite and risk tolerance in conjunction with its 82 SITE_FOOTER 83 SITE_FOOTER Lemminkäinen’s financial reporting process consists of Board of Directors and the Board’s Audit Committee monitor internal and external accounting. Internal accounting focuses the development of the financial position and assess the on the monitoring and forecasting of the Group’s profit achievement of targets monthly. performance and measures, whereas external accounting fulfils the information presentation requirements of the The Group-level accounting function, operating as part of International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the Financial Shared Services, provides guidance for Group European Union and, with regard to the notes to the financial companies in drawing up their quarterly external accounting statements, the presentation requirements set by the Finnish Group reports. In addition to Group guidance, the Group-level accounting and community legislation. The Board of accounting function and the Group Controlling function also Directors’ Report and the parent company’s Financial support and coordinate the Financial Shared Services, the Statements are prepared in accordance with the Finnish business segments’ business controlling functions, and Accounting Act and the instructions and statements issued subsidiaries in their financial reporting. The business by the Finnish Accounting Standards Board. segments’ business controlling functions also ensure that their profit centres draw up the monthly internal accounting Group reporting employs both a standard chart of accounts report in accordance with the specified principles and and a reporting and consolidation system. The accounting instructions. The Group Controlling function reconciles principles used in internal and external accounting are internal and external accounting every quarter to verify the consistent except for the presentation of discontinued reliability of financial information. operations. The internal audit unit, too, monitors processes associated In Finland, a single financial administration system is used in with financial reporting. In 2013, the internal audit unit all financial reporting, and foreign companies use local examined Group and project reporting processes as well as systems. In 2013, the SAP business management system internal controls and authorisations associated with financial was implemented in Finland. In foreign financial units, the administration processes and systems. In addition, the SAP system will be gradually implemented over the next few internal audit unit assessed measures related to the years. implementation of the new business management system in the Finnish units. Main features and control environment of internal control of the financial reporting process Risk management associated with the financial reporting process The company publishes an external accounting interim report quarterly (each year’s final quarter is reported as part of the Risk management seeks to identify threats associated with financial statements bulletin). The interim report includes a the financial reporting process, the realisation of which would description of the business development and financial lead to a situation in which the management would not have position in the review period with comparative figures as well sufficient and accurate information available for leading the as a short-term forecast about the development of the company and the financial reports published by the company operating environment and the result. The Board of Directors would not give materially true information about the discusses and approves the interim reports, the financial company’s business development and financial position. The statements bulletin as well as the financial statements and Group’s CFO is responsible for the identification and the report of the Board of Directors. assessment of risks associated with financial reporting. Group Controlling provides instructions on internal Lemminkäinen manages the risks associated with the accounting reporting timetables and content and combines financial reporting process with instructions related to financial information from different business segments to accounting, reporting and investments and the Group’s prepare a monthly management report. The monthly treasury policy. One of the aims of the unified financial management report includes the Group’s and the business administration reporting system is to harmonise and simplify segments’ income statement, key balance sheet items, the financial reporting process and to mitigate the risks investments, order backlog, operative key indicators and a related to the management of several parallel systems. description of the most business-critical events. In addition, the report contains a rolling forecast of the development of Project-type operations, in which the percentage-ofthe Group’s and the business segments’ financial position. completion method and the recognition-on-completion The Group’s Executive Team, the Group’s method of revenue recognition 84 SITE_FOOTER are applicable, are characteristic of Lemminkäinen’s registers of people who regularly receive inside information business. Approval authorisations determined by the due to their position or duties. Their share ownership has not magnitude and risks of the undertaking are defined for been made public. When necessary, registers of projectprojects. The day-to-day financial control of construction specific insiders are also kept. projects is supervised by the project organisation. The business segment management regularly examines the Auditing current project forecast and any updates, project risks, the Lemminkäinen has one auditor, which must be a firm of degree of project completion, and revenue recognition. authorised public accountants approved by Finland’s Central Recognition of revenue from construction projects is based Chamber of Commerce. The Annual General Meeting elects on the management’s judgement and estimates. the auditor for a term of office that runs until the end of the following Annual General Meeting. Internal audit The internal audit unit is subordinate to the Board of The scope of the audit encompasses the Group’s accounting, Directors and operates under the supervision of the President administration, Financial Statements and Board of Directors’ & CEO. It consists of the Head of Internal Audit and as many Report for each financial year. The Auditor makes regular internal auditors as are required for the unit to carry out its reports to the Audit Committee and submits an Auditor’s work. Internal auditing resources are strengthened as required Report to the Annual General Meeting. The Auditor’s Report by procuring internal auditing services from external service contains a statement as to whether the Financial Statements providers. Its operating principles are defined in the internal and the Board of Directors’ Report give a true and fair view, auditing instructions approved by the Board of Directors. as defined in the rules governing financial reporting, of the Group’s operative result and financial position, and as to The internal audit unit assists the Board of Directors in its whether the information contained in the Board of Directors’ supervisory role by obtaining information on the adequacy Report is consistent with the Financial Statements. The and functionality of risk management and internal control in auditor’s fee is paid annually, in accordance with the Annual the Lemminkäinen Group and its business units. The internal General Meeting’s decision. audit unit assesses the economy and efficiency of resource usage, the reliability of reporting, the protection and security 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised of assets, and compliance with regulations, operating public accountants, has been Lemminkäinen’s auditor since principles and guidelines. Malpractice reports are regularly 2004. Kim Karhu has been chief auditor since 2011. In submitted to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. 2010, Lemminkäinen invited bids from firms of authorised public accountants. 2013 The audits focused on the functionality of business processes, project management and internal control of In 2013, Lemminkäinen paid its auditor EUR 657,373 financial reporting, among other areas. (2012: EUR 562,441) in auditing fees and EUR 358,217 in consultancy fees (EUR 473,201). Insider administration Lemminkäinen observes NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd’s insider guidelines, which are supplemented by the insider guidelines approved by Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors. The company maintains a public and company-specific register using Euroclear Finland Oy’s Sire system. Insiders subject to disclosure requirements are the members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors, the President & CEO, and the chief auditor of the accounting firm. The company also defines the members of Lemminkäinen’s Group Executive Team as insiders subject to disclosure requirements. The share ownership of all insiders subject to disclosure requirements has been made public. Lemminkäinen also maintains permanent company-specific 85 SITE_FOOTER Corporate Governance › Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration – Board of Directors decided that the Chairman of the Board is paid a fee of EUR 10,000 per month (2012: EUR 10,000) and Board members Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting elects each receive EUR 3,000 per month (EUR 3,000). Members the members of the Board of Directors on an annual basis of the Board also received an attendance fee of EUR 500 per and also determines their fees. These fees are paid entirely as meeting (EUR 500). monetary compensation. The Board members’ terms of office end upon the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting The Chairman of the Audit Committee was paid an held after their election. attendance fee of EUR 1,000 (EUR 1,000) and members EUR 500 (EUR 500) per Committee meeting. Members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not fall within the scope of the company’s share scheme, nor do they The members residing abroad were paid the attendance fee have an employment contract with Lemminkäinen. increased by EUR 1,000. 2013 The Annual General Meeting Travel expenses were reimbursed as invoiced. Fees – Board of Directors 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2013 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2012 EUR per annum Board of Directors Berndt Brunow 120,000 120,000 Juhani Mäkinen 36,000 36,000 Noora Forstén 1) 36,000 27,000 Finn Johnsson 2) 26,143 Mikael Mäkinen 3) 9,857 36,000 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 36,000 36,000 Heikki Räty 36,000 36,000 Teppo Taberman 4) 9,000 Total 300,000 300,000 1) From 2 April 2012 2) From 9 April 2013. Fees have been paid in Swedish krones, do not include possible exchange rate difference. 3) Until 9 April 2013 4) Until 2 April 2012 Meeting fees – Board of Directors 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2013 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2012 EUR per annum Board of Directors Berndt Brunow 6,500 7,000 Juhani Mäkinen 8,500 8,500 Noora Forstén 1) 6,500 5,500 Finn Johnsson 2) 13,500 Mikael Mäkinen 3) 2,000 6,000 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 9,000 8,500 Heikki Räty 11,500 11,000 Teppo Taberman 4) Total 57,500 47,000 86 SITE_FOOTER 1) From 2 April 2012 2) From 9 April 2013. Fees have been paid in Swedish krones, do not include possible exchange rate difference. 3) Until 9 April 2013 4) Until 2 April 2012 Remuneration – Management 87 SITE_FOOTER Remuneration – Management also based on each segment’s operating profit and return on restricted equity. Achievements were monitored every six On the basis of a proposal submitted by the HR Committee, months. The maximum performance bonus payable to the Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on the salaries, President and CEO was 80 per cent of his annual salary, and shortand long-term incentives and other benefits received 60 per cent for other members of the Group Executive Team. by the President and CEO and the Group Executive Team. According to the remuneration policy adopted by the Board of Share-based incentive plan Directors, the remuneration of the President and CEO, the The 2013–2015 incentive plan members of the Group Executive Team and other management personnel consists of a fixed basic salary, other At the end of 2012, Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of benefits, annual short-term incentives (a performance Directors decided to introduce a new share-based incentive bonus), and long-term incentives (share-based incentives plan for key personnel. The plan consists of both a and pension schemes). performance-based and a conditional reward. The conditional reward seeks to encourage the Group’s key personnel to A fixed basic salary denotes monthly monetary increase their holding in the company. The Board of Directors compensation, which is determined by the nature of the recommends that the President and CEO and members of the position and the person’s experience and performance. In Group’s Executive Team retain ownership of half of all the addition to meal benefits and the use of a company car and shares they receive through the plan until the value of their mobile phone, management personnel also have extended holding corresponds to half of their annual salary. They insurance coverage for accidents and travel during their should maintain this holding during the validity of leisure time. Total remuneration therefore consists of both a employment or service. basic salary and benefits (excluding the meal benefit). The meal benefit is generally available to persons whose A reward paid through this plan may correspond to the value employment started before 1 January 2012. of a maximum of 700,000 Lemminkäinen Corporation shares (including the monetary portion). The value of the Each year, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors decides on reward will be determined by the market price of the reward indicators and targets for shortand long-term incentives, shares on the payment date. The Lemminkäinen shares which seek to support the achievement of the strategic handed over as rewards will be bought from the stock market. targets. On the basis of a proposal by the President and CEO, Therefore, the incentive plan will not have a diluting effect on the Board decides on the targets to be reached and the size the value of the shares. of the incentives. Performance-based reward Short-term incentives The plan consists of three earning periods: the calendar years Management’s short-term incentives are based on the 2013, 2014 and 2015. The company’s Board of Directors opportunity to receive an annual performance bonus. The size decides on the plan’s earning criteria and the targets to be of this reward depends on whether or not the financial and set at the beginning of each earning period. operational targets specified at the beginning of each year have been achieved. Lemminkäinen’s management is divided A possible performance-based reward for the earning period into five (2012: four) groups, which determine the maximum will be paid out partly in company shares and partly in cash. percentage applicable to each individual. Individuals are The cash portion will cover any taxes and tax-related costs allocated to these groups on the basis of their position in the arising from the reward. The shares may not be transferred organisational hierarchy and the nature and commercial value during the commitment period of approximately two years. If of their position. a key person’s employment or service contract ends during the commitment period, they will generally have to return any 2013 The size of management’s performance bonus was reward shares to the company without compensation. based on the Group’s operating profit, the Group’s return on investment and the achievement of other growth and Conditional reward development targets, such as those associated with the improvement of customer satisfaction and operational In addition to the performance-based reward, the aboveefficiency. Performance bonuses for the Executive Vice mentioned individuals also have the opportunity to receive a Presidents of business segments were conditional reward based on share ownership and 88 SITE_FOOTER a continuation of their employment or service contract. In order to receive the conditional reward, a key person must Pension plan already own or acquire a specified number of company As of 1 January 2010, supplementary pension plans for the shares, or a percentage thereof, by a specified date. The President and CEO and the Group Executive Team have been number and date are set by the Board of Directors. If they do based on a defined contribution plan and obtaining a paid-up so, key personnel will then be granted one share for each policy. Contributions are calculated as a percentage of annual share acquired, as long as their employment or service salary. contract remains valid and they retain ownership of these The President and CEO is entitled to retire upon reaching 60 shares until the conditional reward is paid. The earning period years of age. for the conditional reward is the calendar years 2013–2015. The conditional reward will be paid by the end of April 2016, Other members of the Group Executive Team are entitled to partly in shares and partly in cash. retire either upon reaching 60 years of age (under the old system) or upon reaching 63 years of age (under the new 2013 About 45 people fall within the scope of the plan system, which came into force on 15 September 2011). during the 2013 earning period. The performance-based reward was based on Lemminkäinen The President and CEO’s contract of service Group’s operating profit and its return on investment. The The President and CEO’s contract of service may be 2013 targets for the performance-based reward were not terminated with six months’ notice. Upon termination of the achieved, and consequently, no reward will be paid. contract by the company, the President and CEO shall be entitled to receive a one-off severance payment equivalent to In order to receive the conditional reward, a key person had to 18 months’ salary in accordance with his or her salary rate at own or acquire a specified number of company shares, or a the time of termination. percentage thereof, by 30 June 2013. The number was set by the Board of Directors. Remuneration and fees – President & CEO 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2013 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2012 EUR per annum Monetary salary 486,720 491,400 Benefits 24,627 19,992 Performance-based incentives 0 87,603 Pension schemes 249,166 196,363 Total 760,513 795,358 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 0 10,220 Remuneration and fees – Executive Team members (Excluding the President & CEO) 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2013 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2012 EUR per annum Monetary salary 1,565,226 1,460,313 Benefits 98,223 115,423 Performance-based incentives 0 206,820 Pension schemes 586,030 555,331 Total 2,249,479 2,337,887 Share-based incentive (shares, no.) 0 26,249 Corporate Governance › Board of Directors Board of Directors 89 SITE_FOOTER 90 SITE_FOOTER Berndt Brunow b. 1950, M.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of the Board since 2008 and a member of the Board since 2002 Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders Juhani Mäkinen b. 1956, Counsellor of Law, Attorney Vice Chairman and member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Audit Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders Noora Forstén b. 1981, Secondary School Graduate Member of the Board since 2012 Member of the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and non-independent of its major shareholders Finn Johnsson b. 1946, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board since 2013 Independent of the company and its major shareholders 91 SITE_FOOTER 92 SITE_FOOTER Kristina Pentti-von Walzel b. 1978, M.Sc. (Econ.), B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.) Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the HR Committee Independent of the company and non-independent of its major shareholders Heikki Räty b. 1953, M.Sc. (Econ.) Member of the Board since 2009 Chairman of the Audit Committee Independent of the company and its major shareholders More detailed information about Board members can be found at: http://www.lemminkainen.com/Investors/Management_an… Corporate Governance › Executive Team Executive Team Timo Kohtamäki b. 1963, Lic.Tech President & CEO and member of the Executive Team since 2009, Group employee since 1996. Kohtamäki was previously the Managing Director of Lemminkäinen Infra Oy and Head of the Infra Unit at Lemcon Ltd. 93 SITE_FOOTER 94 SITE_FOOTER Maaret Heiskari b. 1966, B.Sc. Linguistics, JOKO 57 Executive education Executive Vice President, responsible for business in Russia, member of the Executive Team since 2013, Group employee since 2013. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Heiskari was Regional Director for Russia at KONE Corporation. Harri Kailasalo b. 1969, M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Executive Vice President, responsible for infrastructure construction in Finland and in Baltic countries, project export as well as environmental leadership and occupational safety, member of the Executive Team since 2012, Group employee since 1995. Kailasalo previously held a variety of executive positions in infrastructure construction at Lemminkäinen, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Marcus Karsten b. 1966, M.Sc. (Econ.) Executive Vice President, responsible for technical building services in Finland, member of the Executive Team since 2010, Group employee since 2002. Karsten was previously both Managing Director and Marketing & Development Director of Tekmanni Service Oy. 95 SITE_FOOTER 96 SITE_FOOTER Casimir Lindholm b. 1971, M.Sc. (Econ.), MBA Executive Vice President, responsible for building construction in Finland, member of the Executive Team since 2013, Group employee since 2013. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Lindholm worked at Eltel Networks as President Fixed Telecom and as CEO of Eltel Networks in Sweden. Tiina Mellas b. 1960, M.Sc. (Econ.) Executive Vice President, HR and ICT, member of the Executive Team since 2009, Group employee since 2009. Mellas was previously Executive Vice President, Human Resources at Lemminkäinen. Before joining Lemminkäinen, she had a long career at TietoEnator (now Tieto). Tiina Mikander b. 1967, Master of Laws, MBA Chief Strategy Officer, responsible for strategic development as well as communications and marketing, member of the Executive Team since 2009, Group employee since 1998. Mikander was previously Legal Counsel and Director, Legal Affairs at Lemminkäinen. 97 SITE_FOOTER 98 SITE_FOOTER Jouni Pekonen b. 1963, M.Sc. (Eng.) Executive Vice President, Procurement, member of the Executive Team since 2012, Group employee since 2012. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Pekonen held executive positions in procurement at several companies, most recently at Rautaruukki. Timo Vikström b. 1968, B.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Executive Vice President, responsible for business in Scandinavia, member of the Executive Team since 2013, Group employee since 2001. Vikström previously held a variety of executive positions in infrastructure construction at Lemminkäinen, most recently as Senior Vice President for the Scandinavian paving and mineral aggregates business. Robert Öhman b. 1959, M.Sc. (Econ.) Chief Financial Officer, responsible for finance, legal affairs and investor relations, member of the Executive Team since 2009, Group employee since 2009. Before joining Lemminkäinen, Öhman held executive positions in finance at several companies, most recently as Chief Financial Officer at Sponda. More detailed information about the members of the Executive Team can be found at: http://www.lemminkainen.com/Investors/Management_an… Corporate Governance › Risk management Risk management Risk management seeks to predict future risks, ensure that strategic and operational 99 SITE_FOOTER Risk management seeks to predict future risks, ensure that strategic and operational targets are reached, and safeguard operations amid changing conditions. 100 SITE_FOOTER Our risk management is based on the risk management policy asphalt production, which accounts for more than a third of approved by the Board of Directors of Lemminkäinen our net sales. The price of bitumen is tied to the global price Corporation. We define a risk as an external or internal of oil. Lemminkäinen manages the bitumen price risk with oil uncertainty factor that, if realised, would either positively or derivatives and contractual terms. We use over 300,000 negatively affect our potential to achieve our strategic and tonnes of bitumen annually, more than half of which is financial targets in a sustainable and ethical manner. We hedged using the above-mentioned methods. evaluate a risk’s significance on the basis of its probability and financial impact. The economic situation in Russia and the development of the rouble exchange rate We seek to forecast, identify, analyse, evaluate and control significant strategic, operative, financial and accident risks. The prices of oil and gas also influence the development of The Board of Directors defines the Group’s risk appetite and the Russian economy. The development of the rouble risk tolerance in conjunction with its strategic and annual exchange rate and the rising interest rate have a direct planning processes and through its decisions. The Board’s impact on consumers' purchasing power and housing Audit Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of demand. the Group’s risk management in accordance with the annual Action Plan. We manage this risk by aquiring plots in central locations, where demand of apartments is more stable. We also control Risk management responsibilities the share of our Russian operations' net sales in the Group’s net sales. Our target is that during the strategy period 2014– The President and CEO is responsible for risk management. 2018, its share will not exceed 20 per cent of the Group net The CFO holds primary responsibility for managing financial sales. and funding risks with support from business management. Operative risks fall under the responsibility of business Legislative and compliance risks management, which reports them to the President and CEO. Legislative changes can affect market development and, The heads of the business segments, units and areas are consequently, the profitability of our business operations. We responsible for executing the risk management policy in their continuously monitor and analyse our operating environment. own organisations. Every employee is responsible for identifying any risks relating to their own work and bringing Legislative and compliance risks become increasingly them to the attention of their supervisor. important when we are expanding our operations into new markets and strengthening our foothold in our current Lemminkäinen’s major risks markets. We invest in the implementation of our Code of Conduct and competition law training. In this way, we Strategic risks manage the risk of malpractice and corruption. Business risks Operative risks Fluctuations in global economic trends and changes in our Project-specific risks operating environment affect the demand for our products and services and their cost levels. We continually monitor The significant risks associated with projects involve cost economic trends and changes in the economy. We aim to and implementation management. In particular, the large, forecast them through, for example, scenario exercises during demanding projects require good project management. We strategic and operational planning. Our goal is to minimise manage this risk by developing our personnel’s project any associated risks. management expertise. We continuously develop our contractual expertise and project management practices Risks associated with climate change during the tender and implementation stage. In 2014, we will revise our management models and decision-making powers, Unusual or harsh weather can weaken the profitability of our operations by interrupting or delaying projects. increase the number of risk reviews and intensify the projects’ margin follow-up. Risks associated with the price of oil Mistakes and defects in production also pose a risk for us. We use great amounts of oil-based products in Our management systems support project management and help us to ensure the quality of products. 101 SITE_FOOTER Plot and sales risks risk management and funding activities. More detailed information on financial risks is presented in In our residential and commercial development projects, we the notes to the 2013 financial statements. are responsible for the entire implementation of the project, starting with plot acquisition. We buy plots in Finland and Russia from both the private and public sectors. We manage Accident risks risks associated with plot acquisition by determining plot Risks associated with occupational safety and the ownership rights and any planning restrictions. environment pose an accident risk for us. The majority of our environmental impact stems from our production facilities, The company’s residential development and construction construction, and transportation. We regularly monitor our involves both sales and price risks. As unsold residential units environmental impact. We constantly seek to reduce our tie up capital, the company only starts new housing environmental impact by, for example, enhancing our construction if a sufficient number of units have been production methods and optimising transportation more reserved in advance. Reservation and sales rates are being efficiently. Our Group-level environmental policy, compliance constantly monitored. We also manage the risk by selling with our management systems and training of our personnel entire properties or parts thereof to investors, which enables help us to manage our environmental risks. us to apply the percentage-of-completion method in project revenue recognition. When undertaking commercial Risks associated with occupational safety are managed by development, business premises are usually sold to property providing regular training for our personnel and by reporting investors in the early stages of construction at the latest, any safety observations. Our Group Executive Team monitors thereby reducing sales risks. the development of occupational safety on a monthly basis. We have a Group-level safety policy. Market changes and, for example, a rapid rise in interest rates increase the sales risk. Accidents and damage involving IT systems, personnel security and information security may also pose accident Personnel risks risks for us. We manage these risks by making plans for exceptional circumstances. The implementation of new IT The success of our projects is greatly affected by the systems also involves risks, which we manage through availability and commitment of competent personnel. With a careful planning and training. consistent HR policy, we aim to safeguard our personnel’s expertise and performance and maintain an appropriate age Legal proceedings structure. We encourage employee commitment through fair and motivational remuneration, interesting tasks and career An isolated risk is posed by the legal proceedings concerning development opportunities. damages related to the asphalt cartel, about which the District Court of Helsinki gave its decisions on 28 November Along with our new strategy, we need new kinds of experts in 2013. For Lemminkäinen, the decisions given concerned the order to increase the share of insightful infrastructure claims of 38 municipalities and the Finnish state. According solutions in our net sales. We manage personnel risks by to the District Court, Lemminkäinen’s share of the damages developing our current personnel’s expertise and employer is approximately EUR 48 million (damages of approximately image. EUR 26 million as well as interest and legal expenses of approximately EUR 22 million). Lemminkäinen paid damages The new strategy period also increases the need for to 35 municipalities, but not to the Finnish state. successful change management. This risk is managed by supporting supervisory work and providing training. In addition to the claims that the District Court decided on, 14 claims against Lemminkäinen and other asphalt Financial risks companies for damages are pending. Lemminkäinen has In our business operations, we are exposed to financial risks, made a provision worth EUR 6 million for these. The amount the major ones being interest rate, foreign exchange rate, also includes interest and legal expenses related to the liquidity, credit and funding risks. damages. Our management of financial risks is based on the treasury Lemminkäinen has deemed the claims for damages to be policy approved by the Board of Directors, which defines the without foundation. Lemminkäinen and other parties have operating principles and division of responsibility in financial until 31 March 2014 to submit possible 102 SITE_FOOTER appeals to the Court of Appeals. www.lemminkainen.com/investors. More information on the asphalt cartel and the related damages can be found in the Board of Directors’ report on 2013 as well as on the company’s website at Major risks in 2014 Risk type Examples of risk management measures Project-specific risks Complying with the business management system, continual monitoring of production and financing, contractual expertise The economic situation in Russia and the Central location of plots, securing sales by, for example, investor sales development of rouble rate Financial risks The efficiency programme, diverse funding sources, implementing the working capital optimisation project to all operating countries Reputation risks and ethical malpractices A reporting channel for malpractices, review of management modes, continuous communication of the Code of Conduct 103 SITE_FOOTER
