Marcy l’Etoile, January 2014 As a pioneer in diagnostics for the past 50 years, bioMérieux has a longstanding commitment to corporate social responsibility. We consequently place great importance on supporting and promoting the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which have guided several of our initiatives in 2012. Each year, bioMérieux, in collaboration with the Mérieux Foundations, reasserts its commitment to public health by providing access to quality diagnostics to disadvantaged patients worldwide. bioMérieux places people and their environment at the core of its activities. As a result, we organize several initiatives all over the world to encourage a proactive social policy to promote diversity, social dialogue and the professional development of our employees. Eager to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment, in 2008 bioMérieux introduced the BIOMÉRIEUX GOES GREEN program, which makes progress each year thanks to the strong motivation of our entire workforce. Finally, bioMérieux continues to strengthen its Ethics and Compliance Program, which aims to ensure policies and practices, both internally and externally to further enhance a corporate culture that values ethics and integrity. Through these achievements, we renew our support for the Global Compact and continue to carry out actions that focus on respect for principles in the areas of human rights, working conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption, which comprise the four pillars underpinning the Global Compact. Jean-Luc Belingard Chairman and CEO 1 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices CATEGORY HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; Principle 2: Businesses should make sure their own companies are not complicit in human rights abuses. In accordance with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, bioMérieux carries out initiatives to ensure access to quality diagnostics for the most disadvantaged patients. In 2012, the Company continued to support the work of the Fondation Mérieux and the Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux. In the field, these two independent family foundations fight infectious diseases affecting developing countries, particularly by improving their diagnostic capacity. Actions: 9 Encouraging medical research in emerging countries o In 2012, € 2 million was spent on corporate sponsorship, most of which went to supporting initiatives by the Fondation Mérieux and the Fondation Christophe and Rodolphe Mérieux. 9 Providing quality diagnostics at an affordable price in emerging countries o For populations in emerging countries, providing access to diagnostics based on cutting-edge technologies at affordable prices. 9 Contributing to the fight against AIDS in Malawi, Zimbabwe and Mozambique o In late December 2012, bioMérieux signed an important contract with MSF Supply, the procurement center for Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) in Belgium. Results: 9 Encouraging medical research in emerging countries o Eight reference laboratories remain active in the field. The Rodolphe Mérieux Laboratories are dedicated to training biologists, diagnosing diseases specific to emerging countries, and supporting applied research. A number of clinical laboratories have also been renovated, and laboratory personnel receive ongoing training about new techniques in biology. o In 2012, the 6th Dr. Christophe Mérieux Prize was awarded to Dr. Firdausi Qadri, Director of the Center for Vaccine Sciences (ICDDR,B) in Bangladesh. The prize recognized her remarkable research on infectious enteric pathogens, which represent a devastating burden in developing countries. 9 Providing quality diagnostics at an affordable price in emerging countries o In 2012, bioMérieux acquired RAS LifeSciences, an Indian molecular biology company. o Creation of a commercial subsidiary in Malaysia. o Creation of a commercial subsidiary in Vietnam. 9 Contributing to the fight against AIDS in Malawi, Zimbabwe and Mozambique o According to the terms of the agreement, bioMérieux plans to supply reagents and consumables for measuring 300,000 viral loads over the 2013 2015 period. 2 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices Countries in which initiatives took place: o India, Haiti, Mali, Madagascar, Lebanon, Tajikistan, China, Laos, Cambodia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Vietnam and Malaysia. 3 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices CATEGORY LABOR CONDITIONS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. For Group employees, bioMérieux pursues an active human resources policy focused on several areas: performance tracking, developing skills and mobility, compensation policy, improving working conditions and promoting gender equality in the workplace. Actions: 9 A highly-developed tradition of social dialogue with employee representative bodies o Nine company-wide agreements were signed in France. 9 Diversity: employing workers with disability o The Company continued to implement the 2011-2013 agreement on the employment of workers with disability. 9 Promoting gender equality in the workplace o The agreement in France has been updated regularly since it was signed in 2003 and currently covers 2012, 2013 and 2014. This agreement sets out the Company’s commitment to take a stand against all forms of discrimination, in particular by raising awareness among managers during management training courses. Results: 9 A highly-developed tradition of social dialogue with employee representative bodies o A “Health in the Workplace” agreement aimed at improving the health and welfare of employees at work pays particular attention to workstations, organization, night work, and the prevention of the risk of stress and bullying, in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination. In addition, this agreement harmonizes methods for the prevention and assessment of risk in all of bioMérieux’s French sites, introduces alternate telecommuting for some autonomous employees, and creates a Central HSWC (Health, Safety and Working Conditions) Committee. o The mandatory annual bargaining agreement for 2013 was signed unanimously. 9 Disability: employing workers with disability o As part of the Company’s initiatives in favor of workers with disabilities, “Handibio” days were once again held in France to raise employee awareness on the issue of disability. 9 Promoting gender equality in the workplace o As of December 31, 2012, women represented 49% of the bioMérieux workforce. Countries in which initiatives took place: o Worldwide and France 4 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices CATEGORY THE ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Initiatives to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Initiatives to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Actions: 9 Energy o In 2012, bioMérieux renewed its commitment to use certified “green” electricity over the 2013 2015 period to meet 50% of needs at two of the sites that consume the greatest amount of electricity. The Company’s subsidiaries are also committed to this approach: the Austrian and Canadian subsidiaries use hydroelectricity to meet 100% of their needs. 9 Water o In 2012, bioMérieux invested in waste-water pre-treatment equipment at its Craponne and Marcy l’Etoile sites in France to improve the quality of wastewater before its discharge into the local sewage networks. 9 Paper o In 2012, bioMérieux continued to replace printed instructions for use included in reagents packaging by electronic instructions for use and to implement the EcoPrint printing system, which leads to a reduction in office paper consumption. 9 Waste o bioMérieux seeks to optimize waste management at source. As part of its continuous improvement approach, in 2012 the Marcy l’Etoile site in France optimized the VIDAS Solid Phase Receptacle (SPR) production line in order to reduce scrap. o In 2012, bioMérieux upgraded its waste storage facilities to improve sorting and therefore recycling and waste-to-energy rates. Investments were focused in particular on the Marcy l’Etoile (France), Durham (U.S.) and Shanghai (China) sites. 9 Emissions o In 2012, bioMérieux continued its initiatives designed to reduce the impact of employee travel by developing telecommunication tools and promoting car-free means of transportation for the home-to-work commute. The Marcy l’Etoile site in France is now a member of the Greater Lyon regional carpooling platform. ® o The roll-out of the VILINK IT solution continued in 2012, which enables bioMérieux customers to benefit from remote interventions for software updates, incident resolution and maintenance operations, thanks to a fast and secure connection that suppresses the need for a technician to drive to a customer’s site. 5 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices o In 2012, bioMérieux carried out an assessment of greenhouse gas emissions generated by its French sites, in line with regulations. Direct emissions of greenhouse gases and indirect emissions associated with energy totaled 10,8211 mt CO2e (metric tons of CO2 equivalent). 9 Eco-design o Eco-design of products: a corporate eco-design guide was published in January 2013, with the aim of ensuring that a product’s environmental impacts over its entire life cycle will be taken into account as of the design and development phases. o Eco-design of buildings: a high-quality environmental (HQE) approach was adopted for a new research and development building at the La Balme-lesGrottes site (Isère, France). Results: 9 Energy o Across the Group, energy consumption in relation to sales was reduced by 18% between 2008 and 2012. 9 Water o Across the Group, water consumption in relation to sales was reduced by 18% between 2008 and 2012. 9 Paper o By the end of 2012, paper consumption had decreased by nearly 40% in France and over 30% in the United States compared with 2008 (in absolute value). 9 Waste o In early 2013, the Durham site in North Carolina (U.S.) achieved the status of “zero-landfill” site, following the Grenoble, La Balme-les-Grottes and Saint-Vulbas sites in France, as well as the Basingstoke site in the UK. The proportion of waste that is recycled or incinerated with energy recovery reached nearly 70% in 2012 (in weight). o The continuous improvement initiative at the Marcy l’Etoile (France) site made it possible to avoid the disposal of 800,000 VIDAS SPRs2 per year. 9 Emissions o The VILINK® IT solution covers the following ranges: VITEK® 2, VITEK® MS, PREVI® Isola and Myla®, among others. o Seven bioMérieux sites are currently equipped with high-performance telecommunication (telepresence) facilities, allowing meetings to be conducted remotely under excellent conditions. The carpooling community created thanks to a dedicated Internet platform for the Greater Lyon area is one of the most active communities in the system. 1 Based on 2011 data 2 Solid Phase Receptacles 6 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices 9 Eco-design o Eco-design of products: in 2012, bioMérieux introduced a new packaging for antimicrobial susceptibility testing products in the Etest® range, making it possible to store products at temperatures of 2 8°C instead of negative temperatures previously and thereby consume less energy during transportation as well as for storage at bioMérieux and at customers’ premises. At the same time, the introduction of electronic information sheets led to a 30% reduction in the volume of the new packaging. o Eco-design of buildings: the new building under construction at the La Balme-lesGrottes (France) site obtained certification in accordance with the “HQE Bâtiments Tertiaires” approach in October 2012 for the programming and design phases (certificate No. NF380/12/1015 Rev.00 dated 19/10/2012 – certified characteristics available at www.certivea.fr). Countries in which initiatives took place: o Worldwide 7 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices CATEGORY THE FIGHT AGAINT CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. bioMérieux has strengthened the Company’s approach to support its Ethics and Compliance Program, which aims to ensure policies and practices that clearly convey, both internally and publicly, bioMérieux’s commitment to an organizational culture of ethics and integrity. Actions: 9 Preventing corruption o Whenever employees have a question or doubt regarding an activity carried out on behalf of bioMérieux, they may contact the Ethics and Compliance Department directly, either by email or by phoning the “EthicsPoint” hotline, available to all employees worldwide1 24 hours a day, except where prohibited by local law. 9 Training o Online training using a questionnaire was provided to a large number of employees throughout the world about the rules of conduct and integrity. Results: 9 Preventing corruption o A policy stating that employees will not be subject to retaliation or retribution was included in the 2012 Code of Conduct. 9 Training o Approximately 5,500 employees have received training. Countries in which initiatives took place: o Worldwide Contact: Aurore Sergeant – aurore.sergeant@biomerieux.com See bioMérieux’s 2012 Annual Report 1 Except in France 8 bioMérieux Global Compact 2012 Good Practices
