COP  Deadline: 19.12.2014  Zeitraum: 02.01.14 – 31.12.14 Statement of continued support by the CEO The company Alpha Calcit Füllstoff Gesellschaft mbh & CO. KG registered in Cologne, Germany, is one of the leading suppliers of white fillers and pigments for numerous industries in Europe, USA, Africa and Asia. All tasks concerning sales, logistics, applications and administration are pooled in Cologne, Germany. The long-standing company was founded in 1922 and is henceforth run as a family-business in the third generation. The entire value-added chain, starting with raw material reserves via own mining, processing, engineering and production plants to sales, is vertically integrated into the Alpha Calcit group. The consistent raw material quality required by the Alpha Calcit group is guaranteed by the fact that the used raw material reserves are either owned by the Alpha Calcit group or that there are longstanding contracts with suppliers. The Alpha Calcit group’s own production companies are located where there are excellent raw materials allowing the production of outstanding mineral fillers and pigments. More than a total of 120 employees are present on the markets. Production sites are located in Germany, Austria, Italy, the Netherlands and Turkey among others. We commit ourselves to the principles of the UN Global Compact in our daily business now and will continue to act accordingly in the future. Dieter Münchow General manager Human Rights  Assessment, policy + goals Alpha Calcit commits to the general declaration of human rights. This guides the management of the own company as well as the cooperation with suppliers and other business partners along the value-added chain.  Implementation  Measurement of outcomes Apart from the contextual reflection of the subject and its relevance for the economy respectively the business relations in meetings this topic is not evaluated externally. Labour  Assessment, policy + goals Alpha Calcit emphasizes fair treatment of employees and free-lancers. This contains the salary system as well as long-term relations and adequate compensation of free-lancers.  Implementation There are periodical staff appraisals in which yearly targets are agreed upon. Obtaining these targets is base of considerable variable compensations. The staff is promptly given information on the business development in a transparent way.  Measurement of outcomes Regularly, the tool of target agreements results in outstanding performances of the company. Environment  Assessment, policy + goals Since its founding in 1922 Alpha Calcit is careful in regard to using the available natural raw material resources in an optimal way. All staff is bound strictly to an environmental guideline. Moreover, production processes in all sites are aiming to have the mineral raw materials leave the production site completely transformed to processed products without waste. Supported by pre-selection in the quarry it is made possible that parts of the raw material unfit for grafting are directly used for recultivation measures in the quarry. With this background the Alpha Calcit group has decided years ago to substitute the official environmental certifications having become “fashionable” by its own stricter guidelines. Even in procurement of office supplies as well as in regard to travelling the aim is to minimize the environmental stress.  Implementation Implementation is performed by guidelines such as operating or procedural instructions containing environmentally relevant issues.  Measurement of outcomes There is an individual exchange between management and staff in regard to the respective status in the framework of the staff appraisals where measures are defined. In the framework of quality circles identified areas of improvement, such as acting still more environmentally friendly, are regularly discussed and implemented. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, Policy + goals Alpha Calcit commits to zero tolerance regarding corruption, bribery and blackmail and is communicating this actively to its business partners.  Implementation  Measurement of outcomes Apart from the contextual reflection of the subject and its relevance for the economy respectively the business relations in meetings this topic is not evaluated externally.
