SuStainability RepoRt 2013 Planning for the future Vision to be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in Greece and the wider region. Corporate Mission To conduct our business operations so as to To meet our customers’ needs responsibly To function reliably, swiftly and flexibly increase the company’s corporate value for and effectively, while expanding our in our relationships with our people, the benefit of all stakeholders -shareholders, share in the domestic market. customers, suppliers, and the general personnel, customers, suppliers, associates public, by making use of practices that and partners, as well as the local and greater demonstrate responsibility and integrity, communityapplying technological and as well as respect for people and the commercial innovations. environment. strategiC goals Maximising the profitability Maximisation and optimisation of Striving for the highest standards of the refinery and overall financial sales, by effectively marketing the of Health and Safety, environmental performance. refinery products and exploiting protection and Quality, through the opportunities in our three markets application of technical, operational (domestic, aviation-marine and organisational innovations and bunkering, and export), improvements to the refinery. for achieving the best possible profitability. our Values 1 2 Efficiency Responsibility towards reciprocal workplace. shareholders and society. 3 4 Social responsibility Integrity needs. active and responsible corporate the principles of corporate company relations. and commitment to sustainable citizen, respecting the local governance. growth. community and society as a whole. our prinCiples Respect for our people Respect for the environment Transparency We recognise the value of our people We recognise the value of sustainable We operate professionally and responsibly, and we promote their personal development and the value of our natural strictly implementing the principles of business development, while offering competitive environment, and commit ourselves to the ethics and corporate governance. terms of employment, within a working implementation of effective operational environment of respect and mutual trust. procedures and technology for its We respect human and labour rights and protection. give first priority to workplace Health and Safety assurance. Sustainability Report 2013 2 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 42 YEARS MOTOR OIL The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 2001 Increase of the company’s equity 1996 Purchase of 50% of capital through public offer of shares and listing on the Athens the company’s shares Stock Exchange. 1972 by Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Installation of a new Commissioning of the refinery. It comprises a Crude Oil Distillation 1978 Commissioning of the 1984 Aramco). Relocation of the Head Gas Turbine in the Power Plant. 2004 Commissioning of the Unit, a base oils Catalytic Reformer Construction of a Office to a modern Upgrading of the new Truck Loading production unit and Unit for gasoline Power Plant, burning Offices Complex in Lubes Vacuum Terminal at the port facilities. production fuel gas. Maroussi. Distillation Unit. refinery. 1975 Construction 1980 Commissioning of the 1993 ISO 9002 quality 2000 Construction of new 2002 Acquisition of 100% of completion of the Catalytic Cracking Unit certification for units and upgrading of the retail oil marketing 100,000 barrels/day (for converting fuel oil the entire range the Naphtha Reformer company AVIN OIL. Crude Distillation to higher added value of the company’s into a continuous Complex. products). commercial and 103-octane number manufacturing catalyst regeneration Construction activities. unit for the production completion of the 1.5 of fuels conforming to million cubic metres EU specifications. tank farm. New Central Control Room and installation of a Distributed Control System. Certification of the Environmental Management System, according to ISO 14001:1996. 3 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 2011 MOTOR OIL achieves all-time sales and fuel production records (10.8 and 2005 The Hydrocracker 2007 Registration of the Completion of the construction of 2013 Complex is commissioned, facilitating the company in the Hellenic Register of EMAS (Eco2009 Increase of the 5th gas turbine in refinery’s power cogeneration plant, which now has a total capacity of 85MW. MOTOR OIL achieves, for the sixth year in a row, sales and production of “clean Management and participation in the production record fuels” conforming Audit Scheme). share capital of OFC Construction completion of (12 and 10.5 million MT to European Union AVIATION FUEL KORINTHOS POWER S.A power plant, respectively). specifications for 2005 Issue of the SERVICES S.A. from located in the MOTOR OIL refinery and 2009. first voluntary 28.0% to 92.06%. premises. Certification of the Environmental Environmental Repurchase of Saudi Statement, conforming Entry into natural gas Recertification of Health and Safety Management System, Aramco’s stake in the with EU Regulation trading in collaboration Management System, according to according to company. EMAS ER 761/2001. with MYTILINEOS S.A. OHSAS 18001:2007. ISO 14001:2004. 2006 Certification of the 2008 Certification of 2010 Commissioning of the new 60,000 2012 MOTOR OIL achieves refinery’s Chemical Health and Safety barrels/day Crude Distillation Unit, another sales and Laboratory, according Management System, and of two additional Sulphur production record (11.7 to ISO 17025:2005 according to OHSAS Recovery Units, of a combined and 10.2 million MT 18001:2007. respectively). capacity. Joint Venture Recertification of the Agreement with Completion of the acquisition Quality Management MYTILINEOS S.A. of the shares of the companies System according to the for the construction SHELL HELLAS S.A. (renamed ISO 9001:2008. and operation of the to Coral S.A.), and SHELL GAS KORINTHOS POWER A.E.B.E.Y. (renamed to Coral GAS S.A. natural gas, A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% of the combined-cycle Power aviation fuels trading company. Plant. 4 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 Delivering consistent and lasting value 5 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 While 2013 was the most difficult year for the refining industry in Europe, and especially in the Mediterranean, we have continued to operate with a clear vision and a solid sense of responsibility, incorporating the principle of sustainable growth in both our daily operations and long term planning. Moreover in this challenging environment, we managed to carry out an extensive programme of periodic maintenance and upgrade, which kept main refinery units out of the production process for several days. Nevertheless, thanks to the refinery’s high complexity index and by placing emphasis on increased competitiveness and extroversion, our Group managed to overcome these difficulties in the best possible way. From 2001, when MOTOR OIL Group was listed on the Athens Stock Exchange until today, through continuous organic growth and acquisitions, which have cost more than 1.6 billion euros, we managed to be flexible and able to face the volatile market conditions successfully. This resulted in setting again a record not only in sales but also in production for 2013. Also, by further exploiting our export potential, we managed to export 74.4% of our sales, thus counterbalancing successfully the shrinking and difficulties of the domestic market. At the same time, through our financial results, we reaffirmed our commitment to social responsibility. Deeply rooted in our country, with a keen awareness of the role we play in the development of the Greek economy, we consistently follow an operational and growth strategy always with respect to our stakeholders. In this context, we delivered a social product that, in 2013, amounted to 454.7 million euros. With a workforce of over 1,800 employees in the entire Group, we offer job security and commit to the development of our people, who give their best on a daily basis. In 2013, we organized training programmes, which amounted to 17,700 man-hours, while continuing to offer excellent working conditions and prospects for personal and professional advancement. We continued to place special emphasis on the implementation of integrated management systems for Health, Safety and the Environment and spent a total of 19.3 million euros on Safety and 22.7 million euros on the Environment, in both investments and operating expenses. Having zero accidents as an objective, we strive on a daily basis, to create a safety culture in all our activities and facilities. We are continuously reducing our environmental footprint through the use of Best Available Techniques, helping to cut the emission of pollutants into the atmosphere, to enhance energy efficiency and to manage all byproducts or waste more efficiently. We support the society through a variety of programmes and initiatives, which place emphasis on the needs of the local communities and, specifically, the young generation and those of vulnerable groups affected particularly harshly by the continuing crisis. All the above are described in detail in this “Sustainability Report 2013”, the twelfth report in succession to be issued, which describes our Group’s activities. Its structure follows the new G4 Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, aiming at an objective and transparent presentation of our results, as well as the principles of the UN Global Compact that we endorse and support. As a leading company in our sector, we continue, with consistency and perseverance, to generate value for all stakeholders. Relying on the relationships of trust we have built with our people and with a long term strategy, we adopt cutting-edge technologies that help us become more and more efficient, thus securing a competitive and viable future. Motor Oil Group Management 6 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 Contents i Vision, Mission, Strategic Targets, Values and Principles ii Key Group data for 2013 2 The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 5 Management Message 6 Contents 8 On the Sustainability Report 2013 10 30 42 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS HEALTH RESPONSIBILITY OUR EMPLOYEES AND SAFETY 12 Profile of the Motor Oil Group 32 Human resources management 44 Health and safety management 13 The refinery system framework 15 2013 Results 32 Equal opportunities and human 46 Safety indices 16 Corporate governance rights 48 Health and safety investments 18 Participation in international 33 Labour relations Relations with 49 Inspections national agencies and networks trade unions 50 Procedures 19 Awards 33 Basic employment data 52 Planned shutdownsNew 20 Managing corporate responsibility 36 Remuneration system projects 21 Economic benefits to society 37 Additional discretionary benefits 52 REACH and CLP Regulations Social product 38 Education and training 53 Emergency response plans 23 Responsible growth and investment 54 Safety of port installations 24 Responsibility for the environment, 54 Safeguarding workforce health health and safety 55 Education, Briefing 25 Responsible quality management and Collaborations 27 Customer service Respect for the customer 28 Responsible communication with stakeholders 7 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 58 80 90 RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL GLOBAL COMPACT: FOR THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 60 Environmental management 83 Social solidarity 62 Environmental impact management 86 Culture 62 Environmental investments and 87 Education and Youth expenses 63 Best Available Techniques 66 Energy efficiency and climate change 89 89 Sports Entrepreneurship 91 70 Air quality management GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 74 Liquid waste management 75 Solid waste management Recycling 76 Water management 77 Noise management 78 Protection of the marine environment 78 Refinery communication with local stakeholders 79 Compliance with environmental legislation 8 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 On the Sustainability Report 2013 (G4-18, G4-23) The Sustainability Report of 2013 is the twelfth such record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January 2013 31 December 2013), which reflects the company’s vision and strategic objectives, as well as its values and principles. The primary concern of the Report is to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities. The Report underlines the Group’s sincere commitment to the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility. As an active member of the community, the MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development by responding to the environmental challenges deriving from its operations while at the same tries to meet the needs of the local and wider society. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2013 is designed to cover, all aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, therefore, on actions that demonstrate respect for human values and the environment, the implementation of an effective health and safety policy, and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social development. The various sections of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the latest quantitative figures and data. The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of companies, not however including OFC. 9 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2013 was based on the new G4 guidelines of the Global Global Compact. At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching the contents of the current Report to the GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this sense, the Sustainability Report 2013, also serves as a Communication on Progress for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2013 and the Environmental Statement 2013, as well as at the company website, www.moh.gr Communication The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2013 has been edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to produce a comprehensive Report. We welcome all views and observations on the structure and content of the report your input will help us to keep improving its quality. Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr 01 Identity and Corporate Responsibility DEBT REDUCTION MATURING OF INVESTMENTS AND ACQUISITIONS INCREASE IN SHARE OF DOMESTIC MARKET, OWING TO HIGH PERFORMANCE OF AVIN OIL AND CORAL NETWORKS 12 MILLION TONS 74.4% OF SALES ARE EXPORTS 454.7 MILLION EUROS MOTOR OIL SALES HIT FURTHER INCREASE IN SOCIAL PRODUCT HISTORIC NEW RECORD EXPORT ORIENTATION We produce energy and create value reliably and responsibly. In the forty-two years during which MOTOR OIL has been operating as an oil refiner and oil products marketing company, it has always functioned with a strong sense of corporate responsibility, aiming at sustainable profitability and development in a socially responsible manner. Combining a progressive approach to corporate responsibility with an efficient business model, competent people and management, MOTOR OIL is on a course of continual growth and value creation for all stakeholders, while it effectively fulfils its social role, enhancing its contribution to society and paving the way for its future development. Its Corporate Vision and Mission provide the framework, within which the planning and implementation of MOTOR OIL’s dynamic growth is achieved. Moreover, its operation is founded on a set of firm Principles and Values that underpin its business activity. For MOTOR OIL, 2013 was a year of major challenges, including the implementation of a comprehensive programme of regular maintenance of the refinery and the continuing of its activities under the most adverse conditions seen in the European and specifically Mediterranean refinery market in recent years. This year, company strategy has focused primarily on attaining a high degree of refinery employment, on optimal distribution of products, on the 3 main markets in which it does business (domestic market, exports and shipping), and on creating healthy cash flows. As a result of all the above, MOTOR OIL managed to achieve record sales and fuel production figures (12 million and 10.5 million MT respectively) for the sixth year running. Additionally, the company also exploited to the full its export capacity, achieving once again despite the continuing fall in consumption of petroleum products in the domestic market a total volume of sales significantly in excess of the refinery’s annual production capacity. In 2013 overseas sales (including shipping and aviation) accounted for 74.4% of the company’s total volume of sales, compared with 72.5% in 2012. There was also a significant increase in our share of the domestic market, despite the dramatic fall in consumption because of the crisis. This demonstrates the superb efficiency of the network of Coral and AVIN OIL service stations, which have proved more resilient than their competitors. Finally, regarding our financial overview, the creation of robust cash flows allowed on one hand an uninterrupted funding of our turnover and operating activities, while on the other hand reducing significantly our bank debt. 12 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 1. PROFILE OF THE MOTOR OIL GROUP (G4-17) The MOTOR OIL Group had an average workforce size of 1,800 and a consolidated turnover in 2013 representing around 5.1% of GDP, as welll as total assets on a consolidated basis of 2.34 billion euros. It plays a leading role in the sectors of crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum products in Greece, as well as the greater eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide range of high quality products. CONSOLIDATED TURNOVER asset of KORINTHOS POWER SA is the combinedcycle, natural gas fuelled, power station, with a capacity of IN 2013 ACCOUNTED FOR 436.6 MW, located next to the MOTOR OIL facilities at 5.1% OF GDP Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth, which came on line in 2012. The Group also holds a 70% stake in SOUSAKI POWER GENERATION SA, which since 2010 has held an The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 electricity generation license (440MW) from the Ministry and the refinery commenced operations in 1972. The of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. company has been quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange since 2001. It is listed on the index of 25 companies with the highest capitalization (FTSE/ATHEX Large Cap), natural gas market through M & M NATURAL GAS S.A., the General Index (ATHEX COMPOSITE INDEX) and on in which the parent company MOTOR OIL holds an equal individual sector indices. stake with MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses. In 2011 M & M received a license to supply natural gas from the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose Climate Change, under which it has the right to sell refinery is one of the most technologically sophisticated, natural gas for the next twenty years. complex and flexible (in terms of production processes) refineries to be found anywhere in Europe or elsewhere. sector through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which MOTOR OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake of 46.03% each. OFC is the company which business has allowed the Group to achieve further constructed and operates the existing, fully automated development of its activities and an expansion of its system for supplying aviation fuel to the Eleftherios domestic market share, relying on the liquid fuel Venizelos Airport, Athens, as well as the fuel storage retail networks of its subsidiaries AVIN OIL and Coral facilities at the same airport. (formerly SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Together, the two networks consist of a total of approximately 1,200 The table below sets out the subsidiary and affiliated service stations selling liquid fuels, accounting for about companies, with the stakes held in them (directly 29% of the domestic market. or indirectly) by the parent company. These are the companies which make up the MOTOR OIL Group. More detailed information on the companies can be found in the in CYCLON S.A., a company engaged in the retail sale Annual Financial Report 2013. of petroleum products and the production of base and finished (packaged) lubricants. CYCLON has a nationwide network of around 220 retail stations, with an estimated market share of 3.5%. It is listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, and features on the FTSE /ATHEX Mid Small Cap Index. the electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake acquired by the parent company MOTOR OIL S.A. in KORINTHOS POWER S.A. (the other 65% stake is held by MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses). The main 13 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 NAME ACTIVITY PERCENTAGE SHARE DIRECT INDIRECT Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% CYCLON HELLAS LUBRICANTS AND Processing and marketing of lubricants and petroleum products 26.71% PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SA Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% MAKREON S.A. Marketing of fuels 100% ERMES S.A. Marketing of fuels 100% Marketing of fuels 100% Marketing of natural gas 50% SHELL & MOH AVIATION FUELS S.A. Marketing of aviation fuels 49% KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE COMSupply of aviation fuel via pipeline to E. Venizelos Airport 16% PANY S.A. HELLENIC FEDERATION OF Promotion of electric power issues 16.7% INDEPENDENT ELECTRICITY COMPANIES ESAI RODOS-ALEXANDROUPOLIS S.A. OIL Aviation fuel depot 37.49% PRODUCT FACILITIES ELECTROPARAGOGI SOUSAKI S.A. Marketing of electrical energy 40% 38% NUR-MOH HELIOTHERMAL S.A. Operation of heliothermal power stations 50% MOTOR OIL (CYPRUS) LIMITED Holding Company 100% AVIN REAL ESTATE SA Purchase, sale and commercial operation and exploitation of real estate 100% 2. THE REFINERY The parent company refinery, which represents the core of the Group’s activities, is located in Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, about 70 km from the centre of Athens. The Refinery with its ancillary plants and fuel distribution facilities forms the largest privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered one of the most modern refineries in Europe. The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 11.54 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. The refinery has the capacity to process various types of came into force on 1 January 2009, as well as the most crude oil and manufactures a wide range of oil products. stringent international standards. It supplies commercial oil companies in Greece, but the bulk of its production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the Since 2001 (the year it was first listed on the Athens Stock only refinery that produces base oils in Greece. Refinery Exchange) the company has invested a total of 1.3 billion products meet the European Union specifications, which euros, most of it in the hydrocracker complex and in 14 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY construction of the new crude distillation unit (CDU). value, adjusting the final product mix to market needs, ensuring better distribution prices and achieving better The technical sophistication of the refinery allows refining margins than other composite refineries in the MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with high added Mediterranean. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE REFINERY Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and a 11.54 rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. 2009. the Environment, OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for Health and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 certification for its Chemical Labs and CE Marking certification for its asphalt products, in accordance with EU Regulation found in very few European refineries. international agencies as the American Petroleum Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and Navy. addition of a fifth gas turbine. 3 (Crude Oil: 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 3 1,500,000 m ). serve more than 3,000 vessels annually. The operation of a refinery requires auxiliary supplies Liquid waste is collected and treated in the Industrial of electric power, water and steam. The refinery’s Waste Water Treatment Plant and the Urban Liquid Waste requirements in terms of electricity are met by the five Treatment Plant. gas turbines of the Power Cogeneration Plant, which make it energy self-sufficient. High-pressure steam is The refinery has a modern Truck Loading Terminal, provided by the four steam-producing boilers, as well as which significantly strengthens the competitive position of the steam generated by certain units within the refinery. MOTOR OIL in the southern Greek market. The sea water desalination units provide sufficient water of suitable quality to feed the boilers and fully meet the needs of the refinery, thus saving significant quantities of fresh water a valuable natural resource. The refinery is connected to the national natural gas network, allowing it to use natural gas as a raw material for the production of hydrogen and as a fuel for its thermal and energy needs. This grants it valuable flexibility in selecting the optimal mix of raw materials and fuels, while further improving the refinery’s environmental performance. 15 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 3. 2013 RESULTS 2013 was the most difficult year in the recent history of the refining sector in Europe, and particularly in the Mediterranean. The great sophistication of our refinery did, however, allow the Group to make continual adjustments to the crude supply mix in order to respond as effectively as possible to the crisis. Thus, in a year of exceptionally tight refining margins, and while carrying out an extensive maintenance programme on our units, we managed to achieve record sales, to slightly increase exports and to cut borrowing a little further. orientation, which became even more pronounced in recent years, reaching 12 million tons in 2013 a new 2013: foreign sales, including shipping/aviation sales, historic record. Its products are delivered to the three to more than 44 countries (the main destinations being markets in which it operates (domestic market, exports Turkey, Singapore, Lebanon, Libya, the USA, Gibraltar, and the shipping/aviation sector) through a powerful Italy, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Cyprus) accounted for sales network and with the help of long-standing 74.4% of all sales, having increased by 5.6% compared to relationships with customers. The quantities supplied to the foreign sales figures for 2012. each of these markets are determined by the relevant demand, but also by the company’s aim of supplying its products to the markets that offer the highest margins. The sales figures show the company’s robust export 11,654 11,984 10,756 9,511 9,742 MOTOR OIL SALES 10,000 BY MARKET 8,000 (THOUSAND 6,000 METRIC TONS) 4,000 2,000 EXTERNAL MARKET PUBLIC POWER CORPORATION 0 DOMESTIC MARKET 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 11,984 11,654 10,756 10,000 9,511 9,742 MOTOR OIL 8,000 SALES BY PRODUCT GROUP 6,000 (THOUSAND OTHER LUBRICANTS METRIC TONS) LPG 4,000 GASOLINE 2,000 AVIATION FUELS AUTOMOTIVE DIESEL HEATING OIL FUEL OIL 0 ASPHALT 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 by a 4% increase in volume of sales. We must also take as a result of a fall in the average price for petroleum into account the limited contribution of the refinery’s products, partly because of a weakening (average conversion units (Hydrocracker, FCC), owing to the exchange rate) of the US dollar against the Euro of 3.4%, extensive programme of regular maintenance, and the although to some extent these factors were countered particularly tight refining margins throughout the year. 16 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In 2013 a number of factors came together to create the for 2013 were negative (essentially because of the most adverse conditions seen in the refining sector in postponed tax owing to the change in tax rate from 20% recent decades. These developments meant that Group to 26%), with losses of 4.5 million euros being recorded, profits before interest, depreciation and taxes (EBITDA) compared to profits of 79 million euros in 2012. amounted in 2013 to 185 million euros, 31.9% down on the preceding year. The Group’s net post-tax profits 9,682 9,282 TURNOVER 8,739 EBITDA NET PROFIT AFTER TAX 340 CONSOLIDATED 6,184 272 FINANCIAL 212 238 RESULTS 3,939 185 (MILLION EUROS) 165 143 108 79 -5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 figure underlines the efficiency of the Avin Oil and Coral retail sale networks, which have managed to increase their market shares despite the crisis and the contraction of the overall domestic market. MOTOR OIL’s DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Fuels 27.1% 27.4% 32.0% 35.0% 37.7% 20.3% 24.2% 23.2% 25.2% 25.7% Lubricants 37.4% 36.6% 34.8% 46.9% 51.4% TOTAL DOMESTIC MARKET 25.4% 26.6% 29.5% 32.1% 34.0% 4. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MOTOR OIL’s management and control is based on contemporary principles of good corporate governance, as prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and by other international codes of best practice and auditing standards. Its strategy and daily operations are deployed within the framework of corporate governance principles, which govern issues such as: financial transactions, The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance operating areas of the company, as well as the best (CCG), prepared and approved by the Board of Directors practices in corporate governance which it has adopted. in March 2011. It sets out the framework for the basic The Code is revised as appropriate (amendment of articles 17 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 of association, change in organizational chart, etc.) and broad range of knowledge, experience and qualifications, is always available in its current form on the company tailored to match the objectives of the company while website. The company’s most senior decision-taking body ensuring, as far as possible, a numerical balance between is the Board of Directors, which is elected by the Annual executive and non-executive directors. General Meeting of Shareholders and which represents a Composition of Board of Directors NAME BOARD POSITION MEMBER IDENTITY* Vardis J. Vardinoyannis Chairman and Managing Director Executive Ioannis V. Vardinoyannis Vice Chairman Executive Ioannis Kosmadakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Petros Tzannetakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Nikos Th. Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive George Alexandridis Member Non-executive Theofanis Voutsaras Member Executive Michael Steiakakis Member Executive Niki Stoufi Member Non-executive Konstantinos Maraveas Member Non-executive / Independent Antonios Theoharis Member Non-executive / Independent * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 Two committees, established in 1996 and each made up as recipient of all reports on audits carried out by of three members, operate within the framework of the the company’s Internal Audit Department. The legal Board of Directors: the Compensation Committee and the auditor or auditor’s office reports to the Committee on Audit Committee. Both are chaired by the non-executive all matters relating to the progress and results of the director of MOTOR OIL Mr G. Alexandridis, and on each regular mandatory audit, submitting a special report on committee the other two members are the non-executive any weaknesses in the internal audit system, particularly directors of MOTOR OIL Messrs K. Maraveas and A. any shortcomings found in procedures relating to the Theoharis. provision of financial information and the compilation of financial statements. The Compensation Committee advises the Board of Directors within the competences assigned to it by the Since 1990 (i.e. long before the passing of Law 3016/2002 latter. It deals with staffing issues and recommends and the company’s listing on the Athens Stock Exchange) policies on salaries, benefits and incentives for the company has had its own Internal Audit Department, management and staff, also overseeing implementation which reports directly to the Board of Directors and of the said policies. is overseen by the Audit Committee. The company’s independent internal audit system aims at ensuring The members of the Audit Committee are appointed compliance with the company’s procedures for managing by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, in financial and operational matters, as well as ensuring that accordance with the provisions of Law 3693/2008, and all issues related to the efficient management of business have substantial knowledge and experience in matters risks are given proper attention. relating to financial reports, accounting and auditing. Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also The Audit Committee is of considerable assistance to audited by independent chartered auditors, in compliance the Board of Directors in performing its duties, acting with its statutory obligations. 18 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal audit system, featuring analyses of sales, costs and Control and Risk Management ICRM Systems, spending, operating profits and other details. All reports in relation to the procedure for compiling financial to the administration contain details for the current period, statements, we should state that the MOTOR OIL financial for purposes of comparison with the corresponding reports system uses a sophisticated software package figures in the budget, as approved by the Board of to produce reports to the administration and to external Directors, and with the figures for the same period in users. the previous year. All published interim and annual financial statements are compiled in accordance with Financial statements and other analyses are submitted the International Financial Reporting Standards, contain to the administration on a monthly basis, and compiled all necessary information and opinions on the financial in simple and consolidated form, in accordance with statements, are reviewed by the Audit Committee and the International Financial Reporting Standards, approved in their entirety by the Board of Directors. for submission to the administration or for general publication, under the current regulations, on a quarterly basis. Both reports submitted to the administration and financial information released to the public contain all the necessary information expected from an updated internal 5. PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL NATIONAL AGENCIES AND NETWORKS MOTOR OIL supports and maintains lasting relationships with international and national bodies, and is a member of: Nations Global Compact). It is also a member of the following national and international business associations: regional Chambers. MOTOR OIL’s membership in the organizations listed improving the company’s environmental performance. below is prompted by its awareness that the rate of development of technology and science in the critical area which is an association of petroleum companies with of environmental protection, as well as changes in the an interest in promoting the safe and environmentallylegal framework governing this area, make it essential friendly marine transportation of crude oil and to exchange views, experience and expertise with other petroleum products, as well as the operation of oil companies and agencies: terminals. oil industry forum on issues relating to prevention Europe), which provides technical support to European and timely response to marine pollution, intended to refineries on Health, Safety and Environmental coordinate the industry in the event of major oil spill Protection issues. Our participation ensures constant, incidents in the Mediterranean Sea. complete and systematic information provision on matters concerning safety and the environment, during In addition, we support the academic community both in production and handling of the products we produce carrying out primary research projects, and in applied and distribute. The conclusions of research projects research projects exploring refining industry issues are evaluated and incorporated in our daily business relating to health, safety and environmental protection. practices in the most suitable manner, thus further 19 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 In this context, MOTOR OIL: and National and Kapodistriako University of Athens in implementation of the SIMPLE project. The SIMPLE Laboratory of the Geology Department, Patras project has been set up to design an integrated process University, for the determination of prevailing chemical for production of bio-ethanol from lignocellulosic conditions in the sea water in the refinery’s coastal materials, residues from cultivation of maize, cotton zone. and wheat, as well as plants cultivated as energy sources, which will be economically competitive and context of the European PROTEAS programme, which environmentally sustainable. has been set up to develop a protocol of best practices with the necessary provision for systems of Health, University of Thessaloniki, National Centre for Research Safety and Environmental management, in order to and Technological Development and AVIN OIL in prevent environmental impact and accidental leaks implementation of the HYDROSOL-PLUS project, which at all stages of the transportation and movement of was set up to create a viable and affordable method to petroleum products and other hazardous substances. store solar energy, to be used in the generation of solar synthesis gas and renewable carbon-neutral solar fuels. Metsovio Polytechnic, National Centre for Research and Technological Development, University of Thessaly 6. AWARDS The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and national business communities. The distinctions awarded them underline the superb quality of their products and services, and highlight the importance attached by the Group to effective meeting of social needs. 2013 Joint Inspection OFC was awarded for the sixth consecutive year the JIG “Certificate of Excellence”. Group Xrima Business 2nd prize in “Investor Relations” category. Awards 2nd prize in “Corporate Governance” category. 2012 Retail Business Awards 2012 Greece, the state-of-the-art Shell station in Spathovouni, Corinth. The award was conferred at the RETAIL BUSINESS AWARDS 2012, organized by the publishing organization DIRECTION and the magazine RETAIL BUSINESS. Joint Inspection OFC was awarded for the fifth consecutive year the JIG “Certificate of Excellence”. Group 2011 Xrima Business 1st prize in “Best Company” category. Awards 2nd prize in “Investor Relations” category. 3rd prize in “Corporate Governance” category. True Leaders MOTOR OIL received an ICAP True Leaders award, as one of the companies playing a leading role in developments in Greek business. Strongest CompaAVIN OIL was classified by ICAP among the high Credit Rating Classification companies in Greece nies in Greece. Joint Inspection OFC was awarded for the fourth consecutive year with the JIG “Certificate of Group Excellence”. BRAVO Quality The company’s Annual Report 2010 received an award in the categories: Net Foundation Environment. Aegean University Annual Report 2010 commended for successful application of GRI principles. 20 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 7. MANAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (G4-27) The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special respect for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is because crude oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. In implementing the principles of Corporate Social A natural consequence of this commitment is that we Responsibility, we seek: adopt a holistic approach to implementing Corporate Social Responsibility principles, by considering the social and environmental impact of the Group’s protection of the environment, and fulfilling our operations, obligations to all stakeholders our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and society as a serving the interests of other stakeholders, whole. at large. MOTOR OIL has adopted a Corporate Responsibility Management Model that incorporates the four sectors We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues of action included in Corporate Social Responsibility and demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our programmes inspired by the UN Global Compact and the commitment to pursuing our business activities with due internationally accepted Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). respect for people, the environment and society. HUMAN RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT equal opportunities MODEL IMPROVING IMPROVING management CONDITIONS PERFORMANCE SHAREHOLDERS, PROMOTING IMPROVING THE PUBLIC RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND ETHICAL LIFE PRACTICES sports and the environment vulnerable groups entrepreneurship MOTOR OIL: AS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, HAVING A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE sees to the personal development and appropriate ENVIRONMENT, utilisation of its employees, by investing in their training, strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum and providing a creative workplace environment that possible impact on the environment, by having in place supports personal advancement, that is characterised an effective Environmental Management System and by good team-work, mutual respect and is conducive to implementing Best Available Techniques, as well as the individual initiative. In such a workplace, Health and Safety most advanced systems for environmental protection, constitute a major priority which is assured through stateenergy management and energy saving. of-the-art infrastructure and contemporary management practices. 21 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN, HAVING A RESPONSIBLE POSITION IN THE MARKET, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local respects market rules and produces top quality products; communities in which it mainly operates, in a climate of it focuses on relations of trust with its customers, mutual trust and respect. It supports these communities suppliers and partners, and strives through the by participating in programmes that enhance their systematic and consistent achievement of its business economic, social and cultural life, and becomes involved targets to ensure the best possible return for its in similar activities that benefit society as a whole. shareholders without compromising its principles of corporate responsibility and sustainable development. RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN A key element in our corporate responsibility is the proper management of our supply chain, aware as we are that a sustainable supply chain not only reduces social and environmental risks but can also enhance values and success on the business and social levels. We thus carry out detailed evaluation of our potential suppliers on the basis not only of their economic viability but also of qualitative and environmental criteria. Would-be suppliers are asked to complete questionnaires detailing their ability to safeguard the quality of the products and services they aim to provide, as well the environmental impact of their activities and the health and safety systems they employ. With respect to the contractors we employ at the refinery and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive programme of safety training, the objective always being to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. In 2013, for example, we organized 4,125 hours of safety training for employees of contractors. Detailed programmes of assessment and training are also in place for the tanker companies which meet our land transport needs. We are aware that every day dozens of tankers are travelling the roads on our behalf, and are committed to minimizing the risks inherent in road transport. For this reason we have developed very detailed programmes in which transporters are assessed and given rigorous improvement targets; if they fail to meet them, their contracts are not renewed. As a result of this ground-breaking programme, by the end of 2013 the tankers we use had travelled a total of 7,724,300 km without a single accident. 8. ECONOMIC BENEFITS TO SOCIETY SOCIAL PRODUCT Positive financial results are of vital importance to us, in order to create value for shareholders and other stakeholders, and for the community at large. At the same time, we continue to pursue sustainable growth and to abide by the principles of Corporate Governance. The overall scale of the Group’s operations, combined In 2013 the Group’s total revenues from economic with its consistent focus on steady growth, result in a activities amounted to 9,444.2 million euros. Out of these, very significant contribution to the country’s economic 8,814.1 million euros were used to purchase crude development. This contribution, based on our successful oil, other raw materials and finished products. This business activities, is made through the generation of represents 93.3% of revenues, a justifiable amount given value, the creation of jobs, our contribution to social the nature of Group activities. progress and cohesion, and so on. Our operations in the critical energy sector reduce our country’s dependence on foreign sources of petroleum products. Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders 454.7 creates primary value for their benefit, and secondary THE SOCIAL PRODUCT value too, in that it contributes to the value they in turn FOR 2013 generate for the economy and for society as a whole. 22 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL REPORT 2013 MILLION EUROS REVENUES FROM CUSTOMERS AND OTHER SOURCES 9,444.2 STAKEHOLDERS 9,123.8 WORKFORCE SUPPLIERS Gross pay, other benefits, Raw materials and other insurance contributions (own and purchases employer’s) 8,814.1 122.2 SOCIETY BANKS Donations Sponsorships Interest payments 2.6 79.2 STATE Taxes and duties SECURING OUR OPERATIONS 18.5 Health and safety Environment SHAREHOLDERS Maintenance Dividends Premiums 44.5 42.7 BALANCE AVAILABLE 320.4 INVESTMENTS IN DEVELOPMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 68.7 PAYMENT OF DEBT LIABILITIES 130.0 CASH RESERVES 121.7 The Social Product is that part of our income allocated to selected stakeholders, i.e. the workforce, the state, shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including suppliers of crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), as well as society at large (donations and sponsorships). It also encompasses the cost of securing operations, including expenditure for Health, Safety and the Environment, insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive maintenance. Based on the above, the Social Product returned to stakeholders in 2013 amounts to 454.7 million euros, while the amounts given back in previous years can be seen in the following table: 23 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 SOCIAL PRODUCT (MIL.EUROS) 2009 312.7 2010 421.5 2011 499.1 2012 512.6 2013 454.7 DISTRIBUTION OF 26.9% 31.8% SOCIAL PRODUCT 2013 TOTAL: 454.7 MILLION EUROS STATE REVENUES SHAREHOLDERS 4.1% BANKS 9.4% SECURING OF OPERATIONS (HEALTH & SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT, 9.8% MAINTENANCE, PREMIUMS) WORKFORCE: GROSS PAY, OTHER BENEFITS, INSURANCE 17.4% CONTRIBUTIONS (OWN AND EMPLOYER’S) 0.6% OTHER PURCHASES 9. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH AND INVESTMENTS Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s business model. This objective is based on the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility; the company strategy is its vehicle, the tools of which are effective corporate governance, a coherent and suitably targeted investment programme and the application of effective management and administration systems. This approach allows the attainment of high operational performance levels in all sectors, making it possible for the Group to record substantial financial results. RESPONSIBLE CREATION OF VALUE GROWTH OF GROUP VALUE STRATEGY MAXIMIZATION OF MAXIMIZATION AND OPTIMIZATION OF SAFETY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION OF SALES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION METHODS TARGETED EFFECTIVE COST EFFECTIVE DEDICATED TRANSPARENCY INVESTMENTS MANAGEMENT MARKETING STAFF IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as has now entered a period of maturing investments and a leading refining and oil products marketing company optimization of their exploitation. At the same time, 3 in the broader region in which we operate. In order to years after the purchase of Shell operations in Greece, a succeed in this objective, we implement a consistent significant increase in our domestic market share is clear and flexible business strategy, which is focused on the to see, demonstrating the increased efficiency of the Coral following three key targets: and AVIN OIL networks. refinery. Our most recent major investment, the construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit completed in May 2010 and which cost, together with the peripheral units, a total marketing the refinery products and exploiting of 200 million euros has strengthened our competitive opportunities in our three available markets (domestic, position and improved our profitability, having now been aviation/shipping, and exports), for achieving the best on-line for more than three full years. possible profitability. Moreover, our largest investment in recent years has been the installation of the hydrocracker complex Environmental Protection and Quality, through the (2005), which made possible generation of clean fuels application of technical, operational and organisational to meet European Union specifications. The rest of our adaptations. investment programme has been designed to upgrade the technological capacity and efficiency of the refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, energy 1,374 autonomy and environmental protection. The result has been that the refinery is now regarded as one of the TOTAL INVESTMENTS AND most efficient and sophisticated installations of its kind anywhere in the world. 738 Completion of the programme of organic growth for ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION the refinery necessitated the identification of areas PROJECTS of operational improvement in relation to operating OVER THE PERIOD 2000-2013 procedures and optimization of the production process. MOTOR OIL therefore collaborated with a well-known Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period firm of oil sector consultants, conducting a study which 20002013 have amounted to 1,374 million euros, not described the existing state of affairs in the areas including capital used for acquisitions. The Group’s of selection of raw materials, programming, stock investment expenditures in 2013 amounted to 68.7 management, efficiency and operation of the individual million euros, and involved, in relation to the refinery, units and energy efficiency of the refinery as a whole. The replacement and maintenance of existing equipment, in findings were then compared with the best practices in order to increase and improve production capacity and the sector, and on the basis of the results a team was set enhance safety and environmental protection. up to introduce short-term and long-term measures and improvements in various areas. Over the last few years we have completed a series of substantial investments for MOTOR OIL concerning both organic growth and acquisitions. The company 10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Ensuring occupational health and safety and environmental protection is part of our corporate Principles and Values and constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive to conduct our industrial and commercial operations without compromising the health and safety of our employees and associates, while maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection and respecting the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. 25 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 The importance we attach to the management of health, safety and environmental protection, and our commitment 2007) and the Health and Safety Management System to continuous improvement in these areas, is set out (OHSAS 18001:2007 compliant, first certified in 2008), in the relevant policy that governs the operation of the which interpret this Policy into detailed programmes and Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004 measurable targets. compliant, the first such certification dating back to 2000, HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION POLICY MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety and the Environment. To achieve this, the company is committed to: Environmental management systems. Protection specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use of raw materials, energy and technology. drills. Protection factors into consideration when business decisions or plans are being prepared, and in the operation of its facilities. on its behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised awareness of safe working practices. and polluting emissions. Protection programmes that take into account the needs of all parties involved. 11. RESPONSIBLE QUALITY MANAGEMENT Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of our strategy. MOTOR OIL’s quality policy is summed up in two key principles, to which both management and employees are fully committed: our quality policy, is oriented to the customer and his its customers, always taking into consideration all needs, covering systematically all operational and stakeholders’ interests. organizational processes relating to quality. The System was re-certified in 2012 by Bureau Veritas, in accordance and evaluates their requirements and applies all with standard ISO 9001:2008, valid until 2015, while the necessary technologies and actions, aiming at avoiding first relevant certification dates from 1993. compromises in quality matters and constantly improving the effectiveness of its Quality Management The consolidation of the Environmental Management System. System and the Health and Safety Management System into the Integrated Management System confers The Integrated Management System, used to implement the necessary internal coherence and links these 26 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY management systems with other related processes which All management systems are subject to bi-annual audits affect them, thus maximising their effectiveness. by certification bodies in order to confirm their consistent The Quality Control process meets the requirements operation, as required by the relevant standards, and are of the ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic re-certified every three years. Accreditation System (HAC) has certified the refinery’s Chemical Laboratory as capable of conducting tests The appropriate development of these management in accordance with requirements of the standard, and systems is realised by achieving certification for their issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by HAC for virtually updated versions. In addition, audits by customers and all the company’s products. This certification offers us an insurance organisations are carried out with excellent additional competitive advantage, ensuring that the quality results. of our products is guaranteed. ISO 9001:2008 HUMAN PROCUREMENT INTEGRATED RESOURCES MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT ISO 17025:2005 SYSTEM Marketing Processing MARKETING INVENTORY OPERATING SALES MANAGEMENT SCHEME ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISO 14001:2004 DELIVERY OF PRODUCTS HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT OHSAS 18001:2007 CUSTOMER SERVICE MAINTENANCE CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OF THE GROUP’S SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES Health and Safety Management System with OHSAS according to ISO 9001:2000 covering fuels and lubricants 18001:2007 certification, for all its facilities. In 2013 it storage, marketing and distribution, and retail network was also granted ISO 9001:2008 certification for its management. Quality Management System. 2012. Specifically, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and according to ISO 9001:2008, an Environmental OHSAS 18001:2007 certification was secured for Coral’s Management System certified according to ISO procedures for taking delivery, storage, mixing, loading, 14001:2004, and a Health and Safety Management transportation and delivery to customers of various System compliant with OHSAS 18001:2007. In 2013 it fuels products, lubricants and chemicals. also received Fire Safety re-certification for the next five years. System, with ISO 14001:2004 certification, and a 27 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 12. CUSTOMER SERVICE RESPECT FOR THE CUSTOMER (G4-27) All the MOTOR OIL Group companies operate having customer service as a top priority. The Group’s long experience and high level of expertise, and its rigorous insistence on high quality, guarantee comprehensive, integrated service and on-going development of relations of trust with customers and associates. MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative customer satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum of its clientele. This aims at establishing an objective view of their level of satisfaction, by obtaining feedback about their perception of the quality of services rendered, and their overall impression of its corporate image. The basic objectives of these surveys are: Survey data are evaluated, with a view to building on the OIL’s individual services. company’s strengths and to detecting in particular the company’s weaknesses and taking appropriate corrective action, thereby demonstrating the customer-focused provisions that require improvement. nature of the company’s strategy. Over time this process has led to a reduction in the MOTOR OIL as a supplier, and assessing their number of complaints about the refinery. In 2013 there impression of MOTOR OIL’s image as a supplier or were just 3 complaints, in 2012 and 2011 there were just partner. 2, and in 2010 just 3. OUR COMMERCIAL COMPANIES The Group’s commercial companies have integrated systems for serving the thousands of customers who place their trust in them every day. More specifically, they have full quality and quantity control systems for their fuels. Quality controls are carried out on fuels at all stages of transportation from the refinery or the depot to the retail stations. With the support of our specialised chemical laboratories, as well as the special vans which carry out unannounced checks at our retail stations, we take active steps to ensure the quality of our products. In 2013, the companies Coral and AVIN OIL introduced The year 2013 also saw the introduction of the VISA (Visual new, state-of-the-art mini-vans which travel around Identity Site Audit) programme, which monitors the extent Greece carrying out thorough quantity and quality to which Shell service stations comply with company controls. These are usually unannounced and cover all specifications and preserve the uniform visual image of our the companies’ retail stations. In 2013, 2,680 visits were brand. Through the programme we control and safeguard made to the Group’s retail stations all across Greece. compliance with Shell brand standards, the cleanness and Moreover, once a year, our companies carry out market overall good condition of Shell service stations. research on a large sample, collecting and evaluating data on levels of service, fuel quality, customer selection All these measures, in combination with the groundcriteria, etc. breaking technology of the molecular marker in all differentiated Shell fuels, and the special Smart Ring for In addition, Shell service stations are also subject to deliveries of heating oil to homes and diesel to vessels, inspection by unannounced visitors in the Mystery mean that customers can feel absolute confidence in Motorist programme operated worldwide by Shell. The Shell fuels, in terms of quantity and quality. scheme allows evaluation of the level of service and customer satisfaction using a questionnaire covering Coral Gas aspires to be the leading LPG company in such areas as efficiency, service, cleanliness and speed Greece and is continuing efforts to offer innovative of transactions. In 2013, some 2,400 secret visits were products to its customers. By introducing the special Flow carried out at Shell service stations. The results of these Limiter Valve (FLV) on all the company’s LPG bottles, are presented to Coral’s Retail Sales Department, which Coral Gas has raised the level of safety and protection in turn discusses them with the retail station managers for consumers. This is the most advanced solution for all and takes corrective measures where necessary. liquid gas applications, domestic and industrial. 28 01 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Finally, all our companies have integrated customer calls each year, also responding quickly and flexibly to service systems, using call centres and e-mails. Our several thousand requests from customers and final customer service centres deal with more than 300,000 consumers. 13. RESPONSIBLE COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) At the MOTOR OIL Group we recognize that our business operations and decisions affect and are affected by various groups of stakeholders. The long-standing communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss and take into consideration their needs, so that any arising issues can be handled, to the extent possible, in mutually acceptable ways. Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication approach applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: STAKEHOLDERS IDENTITY KEY INTERACTION ISSUES COMMUNICATION APPROACH Employees In 2013, the MOTOR OIL Employees offer their labour, knowlThere is ongoing, two-way communication Group directly employed, edge and experience in return for a between employees and management on average, 1,800 people, safe working environment, competthrough various channels, such as corpoof whom approximately 57% itive and fair salaries and additional rate announcements, briefings, intranet, work in the refinery benefits as well as opportunities working groups and various events. More(see Chapter 2). for professional advancement and over, the refinery employees are reprepersonal development. sented by their Trade Union and the Health and Safety Committee. As a result, official dialogue is regularly conducted; individual employees are also encouraged to submit their individual proposals for improvements in working conditions. Customers Owing to the nature of its MOTOR OIL is in continuous We have long-standing and close business, the MOTOR OIL communication with its customers in relationships with our customers, based refinery has a relatively order to satisfy their requirements on the quality of our products, the service small number of customers. and provide high quality service and we offer, our experience, and our reliability By contrast, the Group’s products, and is duly rewarded with and responsibility. We maintain ongoing commercial companies have the income it receives. Likewise, communication with refinery customers, an extensive network of the Group’s commercial companies and once a year conduct a satisfaction customers, from industrial place customer service at the very survey. In the commercial companies, the facilities and commercial heart of their strategy, offering them customer service departments and staff companies to final products and services of the highest of our service stations are the public face consumers. quality. of the company. We organize mystery shopping programmes to keep an eye on all our service stations, as well as conducting comprehensive market research and customer satisfaction surveys. 29 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 01 STAKEHOLDERS IDENTITY KEY INTERACTION ISSUES COMMUNICATION APPROACH Local communities MOTOR OIL’s industrial MOTOR OIL closely collaborates We communicate and interact continually with activities, as is natural, with the local and regional local communities through local councils and impact local communities communities, whose key concern other agencies such as private associations and in the vicinity of the is the creation of jobs and the organizations (see Chapter 5). Our sustained refinery (Ag. Theodoroi, return of the so-called social commitment and ongoing communication allow Corinth) and the facilities product through the company’s us to listen to the local community’s needs and of the commercial social contribution. respond promptly and meaningfully. companies (Perama, Kalohori Thessaloniki, Kavala, Hania). Partners These are suppliers of We are closely collaborating with We have long-standing and close relationships and suppliers products and providers of our partners and suppliers for the with our partners and suppliers. There is contract services, mainly provision of products and services a structured communication and training at the refinery, at the based on rigid quality and safety programme at the refinery, as well as all of our other facilities and at our criteria. Consequently, they are facilities, offering them appropriate information service stations. rewarded for the provision of prodon health, safety and environmental protection ucts and services to the MOTOR issues, for which compliance requirements are OIL Group, ultimately resulting in exceptionally strict and closely monitored contribution to economic develop(see Chapters 1 and 3). ment. Shareholders, The company’s equity Shareholders invest capital in Through competent management and an Investors and is held by private and MOTOR OIL, as in any other effective business strategy, MOTOR OIL creates Analysts institutional investors, company, in the expectation that value for its shareholders, while always both Greek and foreign. there will be long-term financial maintaining due respect for all aspects of At the end of 2013 the returns, including dividends and an corporate responsibility. The company operates main shareholder was increase in value of their shares. a Shareholder Services Department which is Petroventure Holdings always ready to answer shareholders’ questions. Ltd, with a stake of 40%. Regular communication with shareholders 52% of shares were is conducted in various ways: roadshows 4-6 distributed among the times a year; an Annual Analysts’ Briefing broader investment once a year; 4 quarterly teleconferences with community. The business financial analysts; on the company website; activities of MOTOR press releases and announcements; the Annual OIL are monitored by Financial Report and Social Report, and regular both Greek and foreign attendance at investment conferences. financial analysts. State Public authorities on a The Group has a close interaction The Group always operates in compliance local and national level. with the State and creates with legal requirements. There is an open revenues through the payment of and honest, two-way communication and taxes and duties. Public authorities cooperation with competent Public Authorities, protect the public interest by ensuring the supply of information required by promulgating laws and regulations, each body, as well as documented discussion on ensuring their enforcement, issuing any issues arising. operating licences and providing support in emergency situations. 02 Responsibility Towards our Employees 1,800 EMPLOyEES 338 RECRUITMENTS 17,700 TRAINING IN THE FIVE yEARS HOURS 2009-2013 At the MOTOR OIL Group we believe that our value is generated by our employees. We recognise that they are our most valuable resource, essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to the successful implementation of our plans for growth and in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. We aim to provide a first-class, safe and fair workplace, which promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, along with effectiveness. We are committed to providing the best working conditions, securing respect for human rights and for the freedom of association, upholding non-discrimination and providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. During 2013, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average workforce of 1,800 employees. In the midst of the profound economic and social crisis afflicting our country, we continued to renew our workforce through further recruitment, offering an extended training programme and continuing the provision to our employees of a structured discretionary benefits package. 32 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 1. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The MOTOR OIL Group has created a contemporary, fully integrated Human Resources Management System. The System is designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human resources, with ongoing development and advancement of individual employees. This system is founded on the principles and values of the Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. The aim of the Human Resources Management System is to allow employees to realise their potential to the full, in conjunction with ensuring that they get the greatest possible satisfaction in their work; its principal goals are: established principles of human and labour rights. professional and personal development of employees. business goals. employee performance but consistent with prevailing market conditions. by law and by collective labour agreements. covering subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe discharge of duties. the promotion of a healthy balance between work and family life. term relationships and open communication. approach to work, who share our values: reliability, dedication, integrity and personal responsibility 2. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND HUMAN RIGHTS All aspects of human resources management are pursued with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We offer a workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity is valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, pay and benefits, education and training, etc., are governed by the principles of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. In applying the equal opportunities policy, we strive to We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, ensure: in which persons with disabilities can be productively integrated into the community. We ourselves employ composition of the workforce. people with disabilities, who enjoy equal opportunities in employment and education. all personnel, in accordance with business needs. MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of human rights, in particular those set out in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN 33 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 Global Compact’s ten principles, to which we are where the legislative framework is consistent with the signatories. The Group is opposed to any practice which requirements of the 1998 Declaration of the International might encourage the imposition of any form of forced Labour Organisation (ILO) on Fundamental Principles or child labour. It complies fully with national legislation and Rights at Work, to which reference is made in the on child labour; there are no instances of forced or child Constitution and in labour law. The Greek legal provisions labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor would they include conventions concerning the protection of freedom be acceptable. It should be noted that all MOTOR OIL’s of association and the right to collective bargaining. activities take place exclusively on Greek territory, 3. LABOUR RELATIONS RELATIONS WITH TRADE UNIONS At MOTOR OIL, the terms and conditions of employment are regulated by a Collective Labour Agreement, which was drawn up in September 1974, and is approved by the Labour Ministry. At the end of 2013, 96.4% of Group employees were on open-ended contracts. As is made clear by the recent materiality analysis renewed every year and is then submitted to the Corinth described at the end of the Report, it is extremely Labor Inspection. important to our Group that employees can join unions We believe that smooth cooperation between the and professional associations freely and without restraint. Company and the employees’ union is extremely Refinery employees are represented through their trade important particularly so in difficult times like the union and the Health and Safety Committee. present, when we are experiencing the effects of the The union has had a Collective Labour Agreement with severe economic crisis. the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises since 1986. This We, therefore, hold regular meetings with union agreement, lays down the terms of employment and pay representatives, the common aim being to ensure levels at the refinery. harmonious bilateral relations, avoid disputes and Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour preserve labour peace, while continuing to achieve Agreement between the company and the union, which is improvements in working conditions. 4. BASIC EMPLOYMENT DATA In 2013, the size of the combined human resources of the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC) averaged over the year was 1,800 employees. The comparative diagram shows a reduction from 2012 levels, mainly due to retirements. It should be noted that the 2010 figures were up significantly on preceding years, mainly because Coral and Coral Gas employees were included in the Group’s workforce, following completion of the acquisition of these two companies. In addition to personnel directly employed by the companies of the Group, a significant number are indirectly employed through sub-contractors. Also, it is 96.4% OF GROUP EMPLOYEES an undoubted fact that our business activities create a WERE ON OPEN-ENDED CONTRACTS significant amount of secondary employment. AT THE END OF 2013 1,983 1,928 1,814 1,800 1,470 1,485 1,507 WORKFORCE 1,430 1,338 1,377 YEARLY AVERAGE 1,280 2003-2013 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 34 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, where in 2013 an average of 1,030 persons were employed. Approximately 55% of the refinery personnel live in the greater region of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is the biggest employer. GENDER PROFILE systems, while employees are encouraged to participate We support equal treatment for men and women, in long-term external courses leading to recognised with equal opportunities for all, without discrimination. degrees. However, owing to the nature of the work and the skills required at the MOTOR OIL refinery, the percentage of women employees is relatively low. Thus, in 2013, on LEVEL OF EDUCATION average, 16% of all employees were female, while at the 2013 Group Head Offices, the number of women rises to 38%. Among management, women made up 13% of the total, a satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of 11% women in the total workforce, while in other office and 26% technical jobs the percentage was 16%. DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER 2013 2% 61% 16% UNIVERSITY EDU. COLLEGE EDU. TECHNICAL EDU. SECONDARY EDU. WORKFORCE AND PROFESSIONAL ADVANCEMENT In 2013, management comprised 13% of the total 84% personnel of the Group, while technicians-operators and administrative personnel accounted for 87% of the total number of employees. WOMEN MEN Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within the management hierarchy, according to his qualifications, performance and skills, as the main objective is to fill vacant managerial positions from within the Group LEVEL OF EDUCATION wherever and whenever possible. In fact, under a new We attach great importance to the educational level of our policy introduced at the end of 2011, each vacancy is first personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and retain advertised internally; the position is opened to external suitable and competent employees. applicants only if no suitable internal candidate can be found. 37% of our employees are university or college graduates. In order to further develop the skills of our personnel and to maintain a high-output culture in the workplace, various further education and vocational training programmes are organised in new technologies and 35 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 WORKFORCE AGE RANGE 2013 2013 29% 39% 13% 1% 60% 58% TECHNICAL STAFF > 45 YEARS OLD MANAGEMENT 25 45 YEARS OLD EXECUTIVES < 25 YEARS OLD AVERAGE AGE AGE RANGE The average age of the Group workforce is around 41.6. It should be noted that in 2013 61% of the workforce were By way of illustration, in 2013 it was 42.1, in 2012 41.8, in under 45. 2011 41.6, in 2010 and 2009 41.4, and in 2008 41.7. LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT TURNOVER OF EMPLOYEES Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 14.6 years in 2013 (compared with 14.5 years in 2012, 14.1 in 2011, 13.9 in 2010 and 14.2 in 2009), which represents a low rate of turnover. 52% of employees have been with the Group over ten years, while only 16% have less than five years of service. These figures indicate a healthy balance in the service Long-term employment at MOTOR OIL is rewarded by profile of our personnel, combining the experience of additional salary increments. In addition at the refinery, older employees with the renewal and dynamism brought at Coral and at Coral Gas commemorative gifts of value by more recent recruits. The low level of turnover of are made to employees completing periods of long employees in 2013, which was 2.8%, is a reflection of the service; these gifts vary from company to company and reciprocal confidence between staff and management, are commensurate with the years of service. and the commitment and level of job satisfaction of our employees representing one of our main competitive advantages. 32.5% 17.1% LENGTH OF SERVICE 15.3% 12.9% 2013 11.8% 7.7% 2.7% < 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5-10 YEARS 10-15 YEARS 15-20 YEARS 20-25 YEARS > 25 YEARS 36 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES In 2013, the total permanent staff increased by 53 new a steep fall in the number of departures, owing to the fact employees, while 50 persons left for various reasons. that, because of a change in legislation, many employees When compared with the figures for 2012 this represents had taken retirement in the year in question. STAFF MOBILITY * 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 RECRUITMENTS 84 56 75 70 53 STAFF DEPARTURES (CLASSIFIED BY REASON) RETIREMENT 64 66 46 75 28 RESIGNATION 11 13 20 17 11 MISCELLANEOUS 6 13 14 15 11 TOTAL 81 92 80 107 50 STAFF MOBILITY * 5.4% 4.6% 4.1% 5.8% 2.8% *STAFF STAFF DEPARTURES MOBILITY = AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 5. REMUNERATION SYSTEM One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, both to reward their contribution and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. TOTAL WORKFORCE collective agreements. These additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary payments to employees REMUNERATION EXPENDITURE OF intended to reward productivity and acknowledge the 114.3 MILLION EUROS IN 2013 contribution of individuals to the Group’s performance. BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE The system we implement in order to set, manage and REMUNERATION EXPENDITURE review salary levels is in line with current company 2013 (MILLION EUROS) and sector-specific agreements, and is consistent and transparent. Negotiations covering collective agreements on salary adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied at national level. Moreover, the structure 24.4 of the remuneration system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the same work, and rules out any other form of discrimination. The factors determining wage/salary levels are mainly the employee’s grade and performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities of 24.8 the position held, the educational level and the seniority/ length of service. 65.1 The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in 2013 amounted to 114.3 million euros, while in 2012 the figure was 110.6 million euros. This includes pay for regular and overtime work, mandatory employer contributions to EMPLOYER’S CONTRIBUTIONS social security funds and other additional allowances over GROSS PAY NOT INCLUDING ADDITIONAL BENEFITS and above those laid down in either labour legislation or 37 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 6. ADDITIONAL DISCRETIONARY BENEFITS The Group, recognizing and rewarding its employees’ hard work, introduced many years ago a wide range of supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance benefits for employees and their family dependants. These discretionary employee allowances cover five main areas: In 2013 the Group’s budget for discretionary benefits to employees and their families amounted to 7.3 million euros. Such employee benefits are: insurance policies providing 47 such excursions were organised, to various parts of both pension and medical treatment coverage for the country, in which 3,000 people participated), longemployees, schemes helping employees with the costs service awards, support for employees participating in of their children’s education, Christmas parties for sporting activities etc. employees’ children and family excursions (in 2013, 8.9 8.5 SPENDING ON DISCRETIONARY BENEFITS FOR 7.3 6.9 EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES (MILLION EUROS) 2010 2011 2012 2013 FOOTBALL AND BASKETBALL TEAMS To promote and improve team spirit and employee involvement, we encourage their participation in sporting activities. Our sports teams set up on the employees’ own initiative are now a regular part of company life and have performed with distinction in fixtures against teams from other businesses. In 2013 the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team performed exceptionally well, winning the championship once again in the 45-team Amateur Athens Corporate Games League. The team has won a total of 16 titles, including 9 doubles, and has also performed very impressively in foreign fixtures. In 2013 the sister team from AVIN OIL came 4th of 16 teams in League A of the Amateur Athens Corporate Games, while the basketball team finished 5th out of 20 teams in the League and played in the cup final. 38 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES VOLUNTARY BLOOD DONATION Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have employees of Coral and Coral Gas). Overall, the resulting become a tradition, now with a 28-year history. The blood reserves are used to cover the needs of the blood programmes are run in association with the Corinth donors themselves, their families or close relatives, and General Hospital (for employees at the refinery), the other people, in the event of an emergency. One hundred Metaxa Specialist Cancer Hospital (for employees at the and eighty-four units of blood were donated during 2013 MOTOR OIL head offices), and the Laiko Hospital (for and the total amount donated since 1991 is 3,163 units. 7. EDUCATION AND TRAINING Framing and achieving our strategic objectives in the highly specialized oil industry depends entirely on the sophisticated skills of our workforce. Investment in ongoing training for our employees is a strategic choice and a key element in the process of aligning our workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and ambitions of the Group. Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the We thus seek to continually enrich the vocational MOTOR OIL Group designs and implements each year a knowledge of our employees, expanding their range comprehensive programme of education and in-house of skills, while also upgrading their level of technical training for employees. The basic objective served by training, helping to create a safer and more efficient our education and training programme, is to ensure our workplace. employees have the background knowledge necessary to perform their specialized duties, allowing them to carry out their everyday tasks with the maximum efficiency, The Group’s budget for education and while also preparing them for employment requirements training programmes over the period in the longer term. 2009-2013 amounted to 6.1million euros. 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.2 SPENDING ON EDUCATION (MILLION EUROS) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1.4% 1.3% 1% 1.1% 1% EDUCATIONAL SPENDING INDICATOR1 1. Total spending on education as percentage of total spending on wages/salaries, including 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 employer’s social insurance contributions. 39 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES ARE The main parameters determining the planning and ORGANIZED VIA: implementation of the individual education and training programmes are the educational needs of the workforce instructors. as identified in the working environment each year. THE PLANNING OF SUCH PROGRAMMES IS BASED ON: internationally recognized educational centres. as well as attendance at conferences both in Greece and abroad. courses. emphasis on the technical side, but also on raising awareness of all levels of workforce and management of the vital importance of workplace safety, technical journals and professional associations. TRAINING IN 2013 protection, In 2013, a total 17,700 man-hours were devoted to education and vocational training -at an overall cost of 1.2 million eurosinvolving the participation of 1,091 employees (61,4% of the total workforce), of which 119 THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES COVER were managers and 972 other personnel. The figure of THE FOLLOWING AREAS: training man-hours includes training related to fire safety, use of Personal Protective Equipment and other related technicians, and for newly-hired engineers. subjects throughout the refinery and the other Group facilities. However, it does not include training hours associated with emergency preparedness exercises. of employment, as well as in use of personal safety equipment and working machinery/equipment. Occupational health and safety, environmental protection and quality were the principal subjects covered by training activities in 2013. In these areas training was provided Protection and Quality, with an emphasis on the special to cover the relevant management systems, the REACH features of each workplace. Regulation, preventing pollution of the sea and avoidance of related incidents, safety of port installations, process safety, occupational health, fire safety, the use of Personal regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid Protective Equipment, the rescue of people from places provision. of great height, safe driving and fuel transport, the provision of first aid and other more specialized topics. procedures for the safe loading, unloading and transport of fuels. skills, as well as personal development issues. scheduled or unscheduled drills. This training includes joint exercises with the other Greek refineries, and participation of the Fire Service. 40 02 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 3.7% 6% MAN-HOURS DEVOTED TO EACH EDUCATIONAL 12.3% TRAINING AREA 2013 TOTAL HOURS 17,700 12.8% TECHNICAL MATTERS MANAGEMENT 65.2% IT FINANCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT The other education programmes were designed to use and English terminology. Over the next five months provide the existing technical staff with further training, the new operators, placed in their respective departments in order to develop and further improve their skills in and section, continue their training under the engineers various specialized technical areas, and to instruct staff and foremen, learning more about the various units of of the commercial companies in IT and tax issues, etc. the section and how they operate. Finally, they spend Training was also organized in issues of workforce six months on shifts in the field, working alongside management and assessment, negotiating techniques, experienced operators and learning the tasks they will be management and leadership, creating a safety culture, called on to perform when their training is completed and accounting, finance, law and models of corporate social they have received the necessary positive evaluation. responsibility. TRAINING TOOLS AT THE REFINERY Particular mention should be made of the contribution The training simulators are extremely valuable training and significant involvement of Group executives in the tools, which contribute to the safe operation of the in-house training and education programme. In 2013 this refinery. They are used to train operators of all grades, involvement accounted for about 1,430 hours. helping them develop their skills, expand their knowledge Moreover, during 2013, in line with the policy on and improve performance through constant repetition and reimbursement of tuition fees, 9 employees were reminder. There are simulators in the Catalytic Cracking assisted in their efforts to specialise in particular subjects, Unit (FCC), the Hydrogen Cracking Unit (MHC) and the new or achieve first degree or postgraduate qualifications in Atmospheric Distillation Unit (U-7100). areas relevant to the Group’s current operations. The Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by TRAINING OF NEWLY RECRUITED OPERATORS our own refinery engineers are written to reflect the In 2013, 11 new operators were hired to staff the current structure of the refinery and meet its current production and distribution sections; they followed a production needs. They provide the necessary theoretical comprehensive training programme lasting a full twelve and technical documentation, while at the same time months. offering a valuable source of information. They fully cover the training needs of the refinery workforce, and The initial classroom stage of the programme involved can also be used in other activities where information on a month covering basic issues such as the properties the structure and operation of the refinery is required. In of oil, the principles of the refining process, the 2013 renewal of the material was completed, as part of plant equipment, maintenance, health and safety, on-going improvement efforts, and the new manuals will environmental protection, fire safety, first aid, computer be issued in 2014. 41 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES 02 Internal training at the refinery is provided by instructors who may be refinery managers or highly specialized external instructors from Greece or abroad. The main training areas were as follows: weekly drills. inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height from the ground. During the year we also continued to add to the Digital Educational Material File, on the company intranet, posting material like e-books, conference presentations, training videos and so on. The File is freely available to all, so that both management and workforce can stay abreast and study various areas of interest. TRAINING PERFORMANCE IN 2013 General Training Activity Ratio1 Specific Training Activity Ratio2 Training Cost Ratio3: 1% Training Participation Ratio4: 61.4% 1. Total training hours to total number of employees. 2. Total training hours to total number of trainees. 3. Total spending on training as percentage of spending on wages/salaries, including national insurance contributions. 4. Total persons receiving training as % of whole workforce. 03 Health and Safety 19.3 MILLION EUROS 2.7 THE ACCIDENT SPENT ON SAFETy FREQUENCy INDEX (INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES) The on-going improvement of our health and safety performance will always be one of our main priorities. The nature of the Group’s business operations refining, storage, transportation and marketing of fuels combined with our corporate Principles and Values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter of exceptional importance, and a priority to which our commitment is absolute and permanent. In order to ensure a safe working environment, and achieve ongoing improvement in workplace health and safety conditions, we implement a rigorously structured Management System, fully aligned with European Union Directives and other, additional measures. In pursuit of our established objective of Zero Accidents, we reinforce our management system with: tasks are carried out. In 2013, our activities in the field of health and safety, in addition to other projects, focused on further embedding the principles of the OHSAS 18001:2007 standard, with which the company was first certified compliant in 2008, on further developing the safety culture, on enhancing safety and accident prevention awareness amongst our employees, on making investments in accident prevention projects, on improving fire prevention equipment and on training. Although our accident figures were slightly increased in 2013 they continue to follow a long-term downward trend. There were no serious safety incidents during the course of our activities. 44 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 1. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Health and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business necessity which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, and implement projects and programmes, to ensure we attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and safety, which can be formulated as follows: safety, as well as in establishing regulations, identifying the lowest possible level. hazards and assessing risk. management in health and safety matters. equipment so as to ensure that conditions conducive to safe work operations are continuously improved. At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on the effective operation of the integrated Health and Safety contractors’ personnel, our neighbours, associates and Management System, which is certified compliant -since site visitors), as well as the environment and our own 2008with the internationally recognised Health and installations, from the hazards that may arise from the Safety standard OHSAS 18001:2007. company’s activities. The same certification has been secured by OFC (in 2006), and safety issues in order to prevent accidents and Coral and Coral Gas (in 2013). occupational health problems. acceptable and effective solutions for protection and HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OHSAS 18001:2007 Management Commitment Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy Procedures Equipment Implementation Planning HSMS and Operation Integrity Compliance Continuous monitoring and improvement corrective actions Personnel Participation 45 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 COMPONENT PARTS OF THE HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Policy ments for implementing the policy. Planning codes of practice and with established operational rules. equipment upgrades, to ensure optimum performance with respect to both productivity and safety. assessment of risk across all activities at the refinery and other facilities. Implementation management levels. appropriate precautions, by all employees and at all levels of management. efficiency. and regulations. stakeholders, including providing them with all relevant information. industry indicators, so as to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctions and vulnerabilities. Response Plan. Compliance monitoring and corrective actions function. Continuous improvement The operation of the Health and Safety Management There are also two statutory committees: System is assigned to the refinery’s Health, Safety and Environment Section. Moreover, the health and the refinery section heads and representing the entire safety organisation includes in-house safety engineers, workforce. occupational physicians and nursing staff both at the refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head office at a level that Committee, whose elected members are appointed goes beyond the requirements of the relevant Greek every two years by the refinery employees. legislation. 46 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY The above Committees are intended to oversee control of health and safety conditions, making recommendations internationally occurring events. for changes and improvements as necessary. as described and analysed in the international literature. Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of the Group, taking appropriate account of the particular such as risks involving hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, conditions of each workplace. static electricity, etc. During 2013, our efforts to achieve our Health and Safety units. goals were focused on the following: for all workers with annual contractors, on a permanent procedures. basis. and upgrading and improving equipment in general. and Environment Section in monitoring and control of tasks during turnaround period. the safety culture, particularly among production, maintenance and distribution staff. period to assess risk of occupational exposure. European REACH and CLP regulations, and systematic hazardous substances. monitoring of relevant developments (see Chapter on REACH and CLP Regulations) implementation of provisions of SEVESO II Directive on high-risk installations. as well as employees of contractors, through various actions (see chapter on Education -Briefingworkplaces. Collaborations). 2. SAFETY INDICES The extent, to which the Health and Safety Management System operates successfully, is reflected in trends in the most important safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency and severity of lost-time injuries, which have shown a clear downward trend over time. 28.8 20.0 20 Trend curve 13 14 MOTOR OIL GROUP 11 10 9 LOST TIME 8 8 1 6 5 3 199319982003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1997 2002 Eleven (11) lost time injuries were recorded at the facilities of the MOTOR OIL Group in 2013. At the refinery, the core of the Group’s activities, there were seven (7) LTIs, up three from the preceding year, due mainly to unsafe human conduct. It should be noted that extensive maintenance work was carried out in 2013, with no accidents occurring. 47 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 12.5 9.2 Trend curve MOTOR OIL GROUP 8.4 6.0 5.5 4.0 (LTIF)1 2.8 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.7 0.9 1.3 199319982003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1997 2002 Frequency Index = Number of accidents per million working hours The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index, which has shown particularly low values in recent years, was at 2.7 in 2013. At the refinery the LTIF stood at 3.1, for the same reasons as those given in the LTI index. 2.3 2.0 Trend curve MOTOR OIL GROUP 1.6 1.5 LOST TIME 1.0 1.1 1.0 SEVERITY INDEX 0.8 0.4 0.5 0.7 (LTIS)1 0.1 0.3 199319982003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1997 2002 Severity Index = Number of working hours lost per thousand working hours The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index stood at 0.7 across personnel through training sessions and briefings. the Group in 2013. In the case of the refinery, the index Recommendations for equipment improvements, stood at 1.2. arising from investigation of LTIs, were implemented immediately. These values, in combination with the large number of new projects and extensive programme of maintenance, These statistics relate to accidents involving the continue on average the steady downward trend of the company’s own employees and do not include Lostlast twenty years, demonstrating continuing improvement time accidents involving subcontractors’ employees, and an ever-closer approach to our Zero Accident target. the level of which remains very low. Accidents involving Although the LTI and LTIF indices are within the targets subcontractors’ employees numbered 4 in 2009, 2 in 2010, set, and the overall trend is downward, the Group’s 1 in 2011, 4 in 2012 and 5 in 2013. management is offering steady support to programmes to educate the workforce and to strengthening technical and Finally, we should note that, as in previous years, no case organizational measures to ensure we remain committed of occupational illness was recorded. to our ‘Zero accidents’ objective. The LTIs have been analyzed in depth to identify their 1. Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010), and OFC (since 2012). causes and establish the most appropriate corrective measures, which were then communicated to the 48 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS Improvements in working conditions and in the safety of the work environment are achieved by making the necessary investments in equipment, through the upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and Safety inspections. The refinery design, construction and operation is in The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the accordance with Greek and international regulations risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as and standards. Nevertheless, a comprehensive well as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures investment programme in the proper maintenance of at our facilities. Specifically, the most important projects electrical, mechanical and electronic equipment and in of 2013 were the undergrounding of high-voltage cables technical upgrading and renewal of that equipment is at the refinery, the replacement of safety valves and their continually implemented, taking account of developing routing to the combustion flares, etc. technology, so as to maintain the highest possible standards of safety and accident prevention. At the same time Coral Gas proceeded to invest heavily in replacement of tanks, recertification of gas bottles and the In 2013, the total cost of the investment programme of installation of safety systems for the sale of liquid gas at all Group companies on projects to improve health and service stations. safety and to procure safety and medical equipment amounted to 15.2 million euros, while the cost of operating expenditure of all kinds in this area was 4.1 million euros. 19.3 15.8 HEALTH 12.6 AND SAFETY 10.9 INVESTMENTS 8.0 AND OPERATING EXPENSES (MILLION EUROS) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 UNDERGROUNDING OF HIGH-VOLTAGE CABLES As part of its standing commitment to optimizing safety conditions at its facilities, entailing the design and implementation of measures to prevent major accidents, MOTOR OIL undertook the undergrounding of high-voltage cables passing through the refinery. The 150kV cables were approximately 2km in length, with 8 pylons, and the route they took passed within the refinery facilities. The work was carried out under the supervision of the Independent Power Transmission Operator, which cooperated with MOTOR OIL at every stage, from approval of the implementation studies, procurement of materials, dismantling of the existing pylons and power lines to the final removal of the cables and their undergrounding. The work was assigned to specialist contractors with the relevant expertise, qualified to carry out tasks with a high risk level, like the movement of heavy cables requiring special handling. The work was completed in 18 months, and the cost more than 3.6 million euros was met in full by MOTOR OIL. 49 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 In completing this project, following the most stringent safety specifications, the company removed all risk or possibility of a major industrial accident being caused by the power lines an accident which would have had serious consequences for our workforce, equipment and facilities. At the same time the modifications mean that an incident at the refinery will no longer cause problems for the local power grid. Finally, completion of the project to remove and place underground the power cables has freed up a significant amount of surface space in the refinery, with potential for new uses in future. 4. INSPECTIONS It is our standing practice to carry out regular health and safety inspections, which involve scrutiny of production and distribution equipment, working areas and fire safety systems. The inspections allow us to identify hazards and recognize risk. At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are and including departmental managers and the Head of carried out by both internal inspection teams and external the Health, Safety and Environment Section. safety auditors, including specialist Greek and foreign consultants. Recommendations for improvements in working conditions and safety also arise following meetings of the Hot-works and work in confined spaces are subject to Safety and Environment Committee and the Employee a programme of intensive auditing and inspection. The Health and Safety Committee. Health, Safety and Environment Section carries out on average 5 inspections a day, with the total number of The findings of the above-mentioned horizontal inspection inspections approaching 1,100 in 2013, not counting procedures, and recommendations arising from checks carried out during maintenance periods. meetings of the two committees, after evaluation, lead to appropriate technical or organizational measures being Special mention should be made of the two turnaround taken. In 2013, in total 328 new recommendations were periods, when refinery units are turned off for scheduled put forward, while 196 were implemented (including maintenance work. These periods lasted a total of 35 some pending from the previous year), with another 357 days. During the turnaround periods the Health, Safety recommendations pending at the end of the year. and Environment Section (monitoring all work on a 24hour basis) carried out a total of 1,460 checks. Vertical inspections were introduced in 2009. These are conducted on a quarterly basis by the section head, Projects under construction are subject to daily the engineers and supervisors of the various sections. inspections, while planned horizontal inspections carried Each section of the refinery will undergo four such out by teams of different composition and mandate, inspections each year, one for every shift. In 2013, 83 comprising refinery executives and other competent new recommendations were put forward, following personnel are performed according to an annual vertical inspections covering all refinery sections; 83 schedule, as follows: new recommendations were made, of which 82 were implemented (including some from the previous year) member teams headed by a section head and including and 254 remained pending. engineers and supervisors as members. There are 24 of these teams, each undertaking every year to inspect It is self-evident that technical inspections and monitoring six of the 24 sections into which the facilities have been of equipment carried out by the Technical Department sub-divided for the purposes of more effective and will lead to findings and the taking of measures comprehensive control. which reduce hazard and risk and contribute to the improvement of occupational health and safety conditions. out by teams headed by the refinery General Manager The programming and management of these results of 50 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY inspections are based on the use of computer systems the installed fire-fighting equipment. The routine and like the PCMS (Plant Condition Management Software), periodically scheduled checking of this equipment is designed to generate optimal safety results and saving of carried out according to a very carefully planned annual resources. programme under the supervision of the Fire Safety Service. Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the operational readiness of the fire prevention system and 5. PROCEDURES Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards/regulations and safe working conditions are amongst the primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human factor”). Refinery employees are able to perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work procedures they are required to follow and as a result of having been provided with appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have been trained in safety awareness. COMPLYING WITH LEGISLATION HAZARD IDENTIFICATION, RISK ASSESSMENT AND The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies CONTROL with, all relevant Greek and European Health and Safety We are continuously engaged in establishing best legislation, while it also applies any relevant international practices for identification of health and safety hazards in standards, codes of practice and other operational norms, all areas and in implementing procedures for immediate where these are judged likely to help achieve even higher response. The framework for identifying and controlling standards of protection than would be achieved by legal risk is laid down in Greek legislation and in other compliance alone. European and international codes of practice. An independent third party certifies full and Across the whole range of refinery activities, studies comprehensive implementation of legislation in our have been conducted to assess risk for each work station internal procedures and operations. and task; the necessary measures have been taken to eliminate or minimize all risks identified. We have also developed an intranet database containing all health and safety provisions of Greek law relevant Whenever changes are made to workplaces or to working to the refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and practices, these risk assessments are reviewed so as to made available to all employees on the company intranet. ensure they are always relevant and up to date. Moreover, This database is exceptionally important, not only for in the context of the requirements of OHSAS certification the legality of our operations, but also for the wealth the whole monitoring process of our procedures has of information it contains on a wide range of issues, been made more methodical and effective. Within each including hazard identification and control, the drafting of refinery section, occupational hazards and risks identified emergency preparedness plans, maximum acceptable are classified into three categories according to the levels of exposure to hazardous substances, the use of hazard level: low, medium or high. For each category chemical substances and the relevant precautions, etc. of risk we prepare a timetable for taking action to Besides data on legislation, the database contains eliminate or reduce the risk, and appoint a manager to be other significant resources relating to refinery safety, responsible for the necessary action. including: all training material; the complete internal safety regulations for the refinery; hazard and risk We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our assessment reports covering all individual workplaces; workers covering: information and instruction relevant specifications for all safety equipment (e.g. personal to the hazards arising from their work, measures for the protective equipment -PPEand fire-fighting equipment), elimination of hazards or control of risk, correct use of and material safety data sheets (MSDS) etc. personal protective equipment, safe working practices, appropriate emergency response procedures and first aid provision. 51 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 We enforce safety rules in all situations so as to ensure and communicated for approval and registration as full implementation of precautionary measures and appropriate with the competent authorities. compliance with safe working procedures. Of particular importance during maintenance and repair work is the In respect of health and safety equipment (personal procedure for issuing of Work Permits, within a stringent protective equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) we statutory framework of rules and procedures. For this implement rigorous specifications based on recognized reason, the issuing of these Permits is the subject of European standards in order to optimize workforce continuous training activity, covering both those who health and safety precautions. A particular effort has issue them and those who receive them, both company been made to standardise specifications for personal employees and any sub-contractor personnel who may protective equipment at all companies and facilities within be involved in work activities on the refinery site. the Group. In addition, safety equipment specifications are monitored continuously so that they can be updated In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational in line with the new technological developments. Thus in risks, the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is 2013 we updated the specifications for hydrogen fluoride used to analyze risk and operability in all new units or protection suits. whenever changes are made to an existing unit. Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared INDICATIVE ACTIONS IN SAFETY PROCEDURES DURING 2013 compliance with health and safety rules when working in the refinery facilities. New leaflets were also issued with health and safety guidelines for contractors. Management System. Three of the existing procedures were revised. our implementation of the provisions of the European REACH and CLP Regulations. improvement in rules and practices. REPORTS, MEASUREMENTS AND INDICES PROTECTION (SECURITY) We regularly report, record, investigate and analyse We take all necessary preventive measures to protect our incidents (fires, accidents, near-misses) using installations against possible security threats, malicious internationally recognized indices in order to take the or other. Those of our personnel responsible for this appropriate corrective and preventive measures, while protection are suitably trained, both in security and safety enhancing our experience by monitoring investigations matters, so as to be able to effectively and swiftly fulfil of serious accidents at comparable facilities abroad and their responsibilities, being fully aware of the duties incorporating their findings in our own practice. assigned to them, while at the same time fully respecting We systematically record all elements in our health and individual freedoms and fundamental human rights. safety performance, for monitoring purposes, and at the same time we use internationally recognized indices suitably targeted to provide a basis for checking ongoing improvement and identifying any shortcomings or irregularities. 52 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 6. PLANNED SHUTDOWNS NEW PROJECTS Every year, planned shutdowns of refinery units take place which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance to be carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, both in respect of efficiency and in respect of safe operation, while construction work on new projects is constantly being carried out. To avoid accidents during planned and unplanned and briefings were also organized, involving meetings shutdowns, a methodical approach is required, with between refinery and contracted personnel to ensure continuous supervision while work is being carried out. smooth cooperation and avoidance of unsafe actions. Throughout the work there was close cooperation Such extended shutdowns of refinery units require between the contractors and the Health, Safety and vigilance and special precautionary safety measures, Environment Section, as well as all other competent because of the greatly increased risk of accidents, which departments, to ensure direct briefing on any problems, include: provision of information to all personnel involved with immediate corrective action where necessary. in order to ensure they are aware of the necessary safety Whenever a threat to safety was identified, a Safety measures and to increase their safety awareness; daily Technician remained in attendance until the problem was co-operation with project managers to identify unsafe resolved. conditions and for the concomitant implementation of corrective measures; and daily site safety inspections. On the days of the two major turnarounds, a total of 1,460 problems were identified, most of them corrected Depending on the special needs and features of the units immediately on site. Once the relevant observations had being shut down, special inspection teams are set up, led been classified and evaluated, valuable conclusions were by senior members of the Health, Safety and Environment drawn on safety issues, which will be used to improve Section and engineers from the Technical Department, preparation and organization of future turnarounds. who are responsible for ongoing monitoring of the projects. Finally, during the course of the year, and in addition to the two major turnarounds, there were eighteen In 2013 we carried out extensive maintenance work (turn scheduled and four unscheduled shutdowns, all dealt around) at the refinery, lasting more than 35 days. During with successfully and without accident. this particularly demanding time a large number of tasks were carried out, using a large number of contractors’ employees, working to a very strict timetable. Before the maintenance work began the detailed schedule was examined and solutions explored to possible problems that might arise. Training sessions 7. REACH AND CLP REGULATIONS The European Union REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) came into force on June 1st, 2007. The Regulation is intended to rationalize European legislation on human health safety and environmental protection from the potential effects of various chemical substances. At the same time, the Regulation has shifted responsibility for investigating the impacts of production, distribution and use of these substances to the industry itself. The legal framework introduced by the Regulation directly European Register of Chemical Products. affects producers, importers and final users of chemical substances and preparations in the European Union. The After successful completion of the first phase of objective is to prohibit the import into, or the production substance registration in 2010, MOTOR OIL, through its within, the EU of any substance at any quantity above one participation in various recognized organizations and ton a year, unless the substance has been entered on the consortia (CONCAWE, FERC, MERC), remains ready to 53 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 respond to any requirements that may arise, is monitoring The risks which may be posed to human health and the developments and preparing for the subsequent second environment are labelled using a standard system of phase of substance registration (2018). declarations and pictograms on packaging and on safety data sheets, so that workers and consumers are aware of The CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) the possible consequences of handling these products. Regulation of the European Union came into effect MOTOR OIL has completed the above process of labelling in January 2009, ensuring that risks associated with its products on all safety data sheets. chemical products are clearly communicated to employees and consumers in the European Union through proper classification and labelling of chemical products. 8. EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS Our emergency response arrangements are based on the Emergency Response Plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of expansions and other changes to the refinery’s configuration, changing legal requirements, and changes to “best practices” resulting from technical developments or experience gained by others in dealing with major or non-major accidents. We have also prepared and submitted studies to the progress of which is monitored by the management on competent authorities, in line with the requirements of a monthly basis. the SEVESO II EU Directive, which describe significant potential accident scenarios and related prevention and response measures. The Emergency Response fire-fighting, which are upgraded according to a regular Plan describes, with particular reference to a major annual investment plan. The design and installation of accident situation, the public health protection measures autonomous, permanent fire-extinguishing systems -including warnings for neighbouring communities, and at key points around the refinery offer the ability to related advicethat would be put into effect in the event respond to incidents immediately and ensure the that the Major Technological Accidents Response Plans greatest possible protection for personnel and operating were activated; these plans are drafted by the competent equipment. In 2013 we installed two autonomous fireauthorities and determine how the state might intervene extinguishing systems to meet unit needs. in emergency situations. The Emergency Response Plan describes equipment, one 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, that are available on organization and facilities available (both internally and 24-hour standby, and are operated by trained firefighter from off-site sources) to manage an emergency. crews. Features of the plan include: Control Room at four different strategic points on the co-operate in the event of an emergency, which dates refinery site, and the availability of a state-of-the-art from 1988. The effectiveness of this collaboration plan is emergency telephone system that provides for refinery ensured through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, staff to be contacted at times of emergency outside of the local fire brigade and the other refineries. normal working hours. accident response drills carried out a number of times resources is the introduction of satellite phones at the each year, during which the Major Incident Response refinery itself and in the administration offices. These Procedure is activated. Safety drills and major exercises phones make communication possible and allow contribute greatly to the training and preparedness of coordination between administration and refinery even employees, and to the evaluation and modification of the in extreme circumstances, such as a natural disaster, plan itself. They also help us to evaluate and upgrade when ordinary landlines and mobiles may be rendered the fire safety equipment, because the exercises prompt useless. suggestions for new means of improving fire safety, the 54 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY 9. SAFETY OF PORT INSTALLATIONS We give the highest priority to protection of our port facilities in order to prevent any incident whatsoever, which apart from any other consequences, may also cause accidents or marine pollution. It should be noted that, in 2004, MOTOR OIL became the checks are conducted with the permission of the Port first Greek company to be certified by the Ministry of Authorities, pursuant to the terms and conditions laid Mercantile Marine and the Aegean for compliance with down in the approved Port Facility Security Plan, which is the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) based on the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code, which is applied according to the requirements of Code (ISPS Code). chapter XI-2 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The accreditation is reviewed each The Code requires that drills be held at least every sixteen year, in accordance with the existing legislative provisions. months, using security scenarios that are often combined with sea pollution and/or fire scenarios. The drills are In all areas of the port facilities security checks are held with the cooperation and participation of the local carried out on crews, visitors, baggage, supplies and Port Authorities. postal material, as well as checks on access. The security 10. SAFEGUARDING WORKFORCE HEALTH Safeguarding the health of our workforce and their workplace safety are key areas of concern. For refinery personnel we have in place a programme of regular medical examinations (including blood tests, X-rays, cardiograms, eye tests, gynaecological tests etc.), as well as a programme of vaccinations and hearing tests. A comprehensive occupational health service is provided In addition: at the refinery, with the appropriate personnel and material resources in place to provide medical and first and in first aid provision. aid services, including: Protective Equipment supplied to employees. These physician and nurses, provided with the necessary specifications are aimed at facilitating the effective hospital equipment to deal with emergencies. replacement and, as far as possible, standardization of this equipment; these specifications are amended and updated in line with technological developments and medical supplies. relevant EU specifications. with nurse on 24-hour call. analysis by independent laboratories. Central Control Room, the Chemical Laboratory and the accordance with the requirements of the law. Hydrocracker Complex). to toxic substances that might harm their health examination (ECG), which sends measurements to a is monitored through workplace concentration special heart unit for immediate diagnosis and provision measurements, in accordance with the provisions of the of guidance. relevant legislation. In 2010 a special procedure was set up to regulate these measurements, while back in 2009 our company had already prepared a special study showing that concentrations of all chemicals were lower than the exposure limit value. A new study was conducted in 2013 confirming once again that the levels 55 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 of chemical substances were clearly below the limit for the medical centres of the other companies of the values. Group. centre, staffed by doctors, which offers health services arrangements for general medical procedures and to employees including treatment of acute incidents screening examinations are also in place for the benefit and chronic conditions, education in health and hygiene of all subsidiary companies of the Group (AVIN OIL, issues, organisation of seminars and blood donations Coral, Coral Gas and OFC). at regular intervals, preventive check-ups and support 11. EDUCATION, BRIEFING AND COLLABORATIONS The continuous training of our employees, their updating with the required information, the creation of a high level of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, form the essential pillars for accident prevention and the maintenance of a safe work environment. This approach underpins the Health and Safety Management System of MOTOR OIL. The Education Department has a continuing commitment WORKFORCE TRAINING to training the workforce in aspects of the production In order to raise safety awareness among refinery process and safety, in order to increase productivity and personnel, safety messages and posters, the results of reduce risks and the frequency of accidents. accident and near-miss investigations, etc., are displayed on 13 Health and Safety notice boards, reserved for this We also take pains to keep contractors’ employees aware purpose, and located throughout the refinery site. of health and safety issues, with the emphasis on general principles of accident prevention and the company’s Fire safety drills continued to take place as in every year, procedures ensuring safe execution of the work they and were carried out by the immediate intervention teams undertake. made up of refinery training staff. Rescue teams received training from the First Search and Rescue Team (EMAK) Visitors are given safety instructions in the form of a of the Elefsina Fire Brigade in rescue of persons at risk in special leaflet, while a special briefing film is screened for inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height from them on entry to the refinery facilities. the ground. The general content of health and safety training includes Moreover, the structured efforts to educate the technical the following subjects: staff of our facilities were continued through films and presentations/discussions on incidents, analyzing causes, effects and the corrective measures taken. BRIEFING FOR CONTRACTORS’ EMPLOYEES Briefing of contractors’ employees working in our evaluation. facilities continued in 2013 with the training programme (provision of literature, daily training, certification through examinations, recording of results on special data substances. base, issuing of special card) for recipients of the Work Execution Permits for contractors’ employees. relevant drills. The training is based on informational material consisting of a general unit covering workplace health and safety issues at the refinery and a special unit covering issues relating to 29 separate special skill areas. This briefing programme lasts eight hours, and in 2013 the sessions companies). were attended by 349 persons. 56 03 HEALTH AND SAFETY FIGURES FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING IN 2013 MOTOR OIL Other Group companies1 Workers 1,224 576 Workers undergoing training 762 272 Man-hours of training 5,260 3,413 Contractors undergoing training 349 304 Man-hours of training 2,792 1,333 1. AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC. FIRE SAFETY TRAINING In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to respond to emergency situations, as well as to rehearse the procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and check the operability of equipment, regular emergency preparedness exercises are carried out. In 2013 the programme in question involved 9 training sessions on the drill field and 39 drills, 19 of which were based on Major Industrial Accident scenarios. The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of the refinery and the fire crew training field, involving rehearsal of fire crews in the theoretical and practical aspects of their duties, and their familiarisation with fire-fighting equipment and related Personal Protective Equipment. Theoretical drills were also organized in the section control rooms (for all shifts) in the presence of the personnel of each area and the fire safety crews. The refinery engineers also participated in the fire safety drills to receive further training in the handling of scenarios of this kind. In 2013 the fire safety drills gave rise to 9 recommendations for new measures to improve protection for unit equipment, all of which were immediately implemented in full. IN ADDITION, IN 2013: familiarizing them with access to various areas and the equipment in new units. them with the fire engines and their movement around the refinery. on the drill field. and safe use of fire extinguishers. COLLABORATIONS To attain our objectives and ensure a responsible on Health, Safety and Environment issues are organized approach to health and safety issues it is necessary and attended by representatives of the refineries, that we cooperate with other stakeholders. To this end, the competent ministries, local government, the fire we cooperate closely with national organizations and department, academics, etc. institutions, while Greek Refineries Cooperation Meetings 57 HEALTH AND SAFETY 03 PROTEAS PROGRAMME Also, in 2013 MOTOR OIL and AVIN OIL continued their participation, in collaboration with the Technical University of Crete, in the European programme PROTEAS, under the title «REACH Protocol on emissions and accident scenarios in the supply and movement of fuels and petrochemicals». The PROTEAS programme is funded by the European LIFE+ programme. Its main objective is to support implementation of the new European REACH and CLP Regulations in Greece and Cyprus. The programme was launched in 2011 and will be completed in December 2014. The objective of the programme is to develop general Safety Data Sheets for petroleum products, in accordance with the European REACH and CLP Regulations, as well as a Protocol of Best Practices in Health, Safety and the Environment for handling of petroleum products throughout their whole life cycle. ROAD SAFETY Road safety is a priority concern for the commercial companies of the Group, which move large quantities of fuels every day. In recent years they have travelled millions of kilometres delivering fuel all across Greece, without accident or injury to drivers or others, demonstrating in practice our commitment and dedication to road safety, and our contribution to the common good. In 2013, as part of our extensive and stringent road safety training programme, more than 230 drivers of private and public use tank trucks received training in their special skill areas. Fuels are a category of hazardous materials and their of Tankers with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum Facilities». safe transport requires precautionary measures to be This check extends to the full compliance with the terms taken at three levels, i.e: included in the European Agreement concerning the Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR). transport equipment. i.e. road tankers. There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on monitoring of their implementation. defensive and safe driving, loading/unloading procedures and fuel handling, anti-skid and anti-roll over maneuvers, of the transport companies working with us. fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle safety equipment, fume recovery, etc. In 2013, AVIN OIL The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out organized a training seminar in safe transport and their activities with a keen sense of responsibility, loading/unloading of hazardous substances in the context are continually engaged in striving to meet the above of the PROTEAS programme. requirements, in the context of the rules laid down by the state, the Greek and global petroleum industry, and In recent years the programme has also incorporated a their own company policies and procedures. To succeed detailed analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, in this objective they operate integrated systems for so that the safest route is always taken for each journey. recording and monitoring of road tankers carrying fuel GPS tracking devices have also been fitted to tankers to on their behalf (company-owned or belonging to partner allow closer monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route companies), as well as training programmes for drivers, taken, stops etc.). while also undergoing tests and certification from external accreditation agencies under the standards Every year’s training sessions cover part of this ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental programme, so that over a 2-3 year cycle all new drivers Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety receive their training and existing drivers receive top-up Management). training. The road tankers undergo a thorough annual safety check in accordance with the «Regulations on Safety of Loading 04 Responsibility for the Environment BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES AND STATE-OF-THE-ART ANTI-POLLUTION TECHNOLOGY IN WIDESPREAD USE 31% THE REDUCTION IN THE 31.8% THE REDUCTION IN 22.7 MILLION EUROS SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS THE SPECIFIC ENERGy IN INVESTMENTS AND INDICATOR (2007-2013) CONSUMPTION OPERATING EXPENSES INDICATOR (2007-2013) FOR THE ENVIRONMENT IN 2013 Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. Respect and care for the environment is a common denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL Group. We operate competitively but, at the same time, as a responsible corporate organisation we espouse the principles of sustainable development; that is, development which is based on environmental protection, mutual respect and responsibility towards future generations. For these reasons we continue with investments aimed at the steady improvement of our environmental performance. In 2013, we spent 22.7 million euros in our investment programme, featuring both large and smaller scale projects, making a direct or indirect contribution to environmental protection. In 2013 we continued work on replacing the furnace of our Thermal Pyrolysis Unit, which will result in reduced overall gas emissions and a reduction in solid waste (coke). Also, as part of general equipment maintenance, we carried out work to reduce energy consumption and emissions. Our environmental footprint -as measured by specific energy consumption and specific carbon dioxide emissionscontinued to decline. There was also a reduction in the specific value of water consumption. There was a rise in specific emissions of sulphur dioxide, mainly due to the high price of natural gas throughout the year, with the consequent fall in its percentage use in the refinery fuel mix. Finally, the Environmental Management System was updated with revision of eight procedures and five processes, and the annual Environmental Statement 2012 was issued in accordance with Regulation EMAS The texts and indices presented in this chapter relate only to the MOTOR OIL refinery, with the exception of sub-chapters 3 and 8, which relate to all Group companies, and sub-chapter 5.3, which relates to the company Coral SA. 60 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 1. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Our principal aim is to ensure that our facilities operate in the most energy efficient manner possible, to minimize emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants, to function within the framework of approved environmental terms, to rigorously adhere to the relevant Greek and European legislation, and to implement projects and actions that go beyond basic legal compliance. Selection of the most efficient means and measures to reduce environmental impact covers the entire spectrum of our activities; from the selection of technologies when building new processing units, to the practices applied during the refinery’s daily operation, and from the use of advanced control systems in our facilities to the training provided to employees working in them. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM with international standards. This system ensures that The focal commitment of the company to the minimization environmental performance is measured systematically of the environmental impact resulting from its operation is and that activities requiring intervention and improvement expressed through our Health, Safety and Environmental are identified. Thus, the principle of prevention is Protection Policy. Our commitment could not be realised successfully implemented and resources are allocated without the application of an effective environmental so as to achieve the maximum possible environmental management system that has been certified as compliant benefit. Continuous ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Improvement SYSTEM Management review ISO 14001: 2004 Control Health, Safety and Environmental Policy Implementation and operation Planning The Environmental Management System is an effective management tool for implementing the various environmental protection policy objectives, which are: requirements. steps to upgrade production facilities accordingly. impacts. 61 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 pollutants, and of solid and liquid waste, as far as technically and economically possible. preparing, implementing and testing the appropriate emergency response procedures. premises, on the implementation of our environmental protection policy. System. around the company’s facilities. The company’s Environmental Management System was It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the triple first ISO-certified in 2000, according to ISO 14000:1996. In combination of certified compliance with ISO 14001:2004 2004, it was certified compliant with the updated version and EMAS, in respect of environmental performance, ISO 14000:2004, in 2007, it was re-certified compliant and ISO 9001:2008 in respect of quality management, is with the new version ISO 14001:2004, while in 2008 the particularly significant and provides advantages at many certification expanded to include the production, trade and levels. Such a multiple certification is unusual among delivery of fuels, biofuels, lubricants, waxes, asphalt and European refineries with such high complexity as MOTOR special petroleum products. In 2013 the Bureau Veritas OIL’s. re-certified our System as compliant with ISO 14001:2004. The new environmental terms of operation of the refinery, The Environmental Management System is part of approved and implemented in 2009 and amended in 2013, the Integrated Management System, which is ISO place all the refinery facilities, including auxiliary units like 9001:2008 certified for quality. Therefore, the various the Tanker Loading Terminal and the port facilities, under internal operations and procedures of the Environmental Management System are themselves subject to the strict documentation imposed by the ISO 9001:2008 standard. Pollution Prevention and Control, as amended by Our commitment to making public any data relating emission into the atmosphere of certain pollutants by to our environmental performance and the effects major combustion facilities. Finally, the refinery will also arising from the operation of our facilities, as expressly mentioned in our Environmental Policy, has led to the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading voluntary adoption and application of the European Ecowithin the Community. Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), as provided for in European Union Regulation 1221/2009. This system The new Environmental Terms applying to the refinery requires that we implement appropriate procedures for require the operation of an integrated monitoring and the identification of the material environmental impacts control system, aiming at the prevention and avoidance of arising from our activities, and define strategies and air and water pollution, or the contamination of soil, and implement programmes to mitigate them, insofar as is ensuring the most effective means are adopted to deal reasonably possible. with all environmental protection aspects of the refinery’s operations. Additionally, within the framework of EMAS, the company is committed to publishing, on an annual basis, In 2013, as part of efforts to secure the ongoing evolution information about its environmental performance in the and improvement of the Environmental Management form of an Environmental Statement, as required by its System, eight communication procedures and five membership to the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme operating processes were reviewed. System, an arrangement that has to be endorsed annually by decision of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. In 2013, MOTOR OIL issued its BVcertified Environmental Statement 2012, its seventh such annual report. 62 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 2. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT MOTOR OIL, in striving to continuously improve its environmental performance, over and above consistent legal compliance, implements a programme of measures for the prevention and management of the environmental impacts that are unavoidably associated with its operations. An important tool in this endeavour is the measurement, is effective management and continuous improvement of regular evaluation of results, and the systematic the company’s environmental performance. assessment of the environmental impacts at all stages When new projects are being planned, alternative of the production process. This assessment is based designs are evaluated taking account of their respective on a set of criteria -including legislative requirements environmental impacts, with the aim of minimizing these and stakeholder viewswhich lead to the classification impacts as far as practicable, incorporating Best Available of impacts according to their significance and their Techniques and choosing the most environmentally characterisation as significant or non-significant. This friendly solution. classification procedure is also carried out whenever there are any changes to the refinery’s configuration, re-evaluating the classification and characterisation of the impacts. This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts associated with the refinery’s operation, and their significance classification, has led to the following impacts being classified as significant, therefore constituting the challenges we are called upon to manage: the refinery’s production processes. The above environmental impacts are recorded on a regular basis, and suitable environmental indices are used for their monitoring, on the basis of which the appropriate actions are planned and implemented so as to ensure that proper measures are taken, and that there 3. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND EXPENSES The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality specifications, using technologies that minimize environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. Between 2000 and 2013, the Group realised a massive From 2000 to 2013, investment related to the environment investment programme, totalling 1,373.9 million euros (as amounted to 695.3 million euros, i.e. 50.6% of total shown in the table below), the major part of which related investment. In 2013, total investments amounted to 68.7 to the construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit, million euros, of which 18.7 million euros concerned which was commissioned in May 2010, as well as the projects, whose main purpose was the improvement and Hydrocracker complex, which produces “clean fuels” (i.e. protection of the environment. of low sulphur content) satisfying the EU specifications that came into force on 1.1.2009. 63 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT AND OPERATING EXPENDITURE 2000-2013 (MILLION EUROS) Year 2000-2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total level of investment 766.2 78.4 198.5 123.2 71.3 67.6 68.7 1,373.9 Investment relating to environment 546.7 16.7 27.7 33.0 36.1 16.4 18.7 695.3 Environmental operating expenditure 18.4 4.0 4.3 4.6 4.0 3.3 4.0 42.6 TOTAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT 565.1 20.7 32.0 37.6 40.1 19.7 22.7 737.9 AND OPERATING EXPENDITURE In 2013 work was completed on construction of another Moreover, in 2013, the general maintenance of equipment desalination plant, using reverse osmosis technology programme involved: a project with a budget of 3.3 million euros. Work also continued on the major project of replacing installation of burners emitting low levels of nitrogen the furnace of the Thermal Pyrolysis unit, with a budget oxides. of 5.8 million euros, on which completion is expected in 2014. The new furnace, built to a contemporary design, incorporates forced draft technologies, with low nitrogen of catalytic pyrolysis unit to optimize its performance in oxide emissions and pre-heating of the air current. respect of reduction of particle emissions. Capacity and performance will both be significantly improved in comparison with the old unit. Within the Group there is no production of renewable sources of energy, and thus there was no investment in This project is enabling us to optimize energy efficiency this area. and we can therefore expect significant savings in energy and the corresponding impact on emissions of carbon dioxide, point emissions of pollutants and generation of solid waste (coke). In addition, a series of other projects were implemented 737.9 MILLION EUROS IN ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT during the year, within the framework of the refinery energy efficiency improvement programme, concerning AND OPERATING EXPENDITURE the reduction of energy consumption, and subsequently FROM 2000 TO 2013 of carbon dioxide emissions as well. 4. BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES Directive 96/61/EC, as amended by the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive (2008/1/EC), prescribes an integrated system for prevention and control of pollution that may be caused by industrial activities. The integrated approach is based on the overall environmental performance of a facility and covers emissions into the atmosphere, water and subsoil contamination, generation of solid wastes, use of raw materials and energy, noise, accident prevention and the rehabilitation of worksites. This directive introduced the concept of Best Available Techniques (BATs) into legal requirements. of environmental protection. The Directive requires the prevention of pollution from industrial emissions was competent authorities to ensure that the limit values of issued, revising and incorporating earlier Directives industrial emissions will not exceed the levels of emission associated with Best Available Techniques. 64 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT BATs are techniques that can prevent (primary prevention cases of modernization, expansion, improvement or measures that are intrinsic to the production process modification of existing units and procedures. At the same itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” time, the company incorporates automations and control techniques) -in the most efficient mannerthe pollution systems into the operation of the refinery, that contribute caused by an industrial activity, while being economically to efficient management of raw materials and energy, feasible and technically practicable. while ensuring high levels of reliability and safety in the units. Finally, Best Available Techniques that reinforce Best Available Techniques for various sectors are pollution prevention capacity have been adopted, and are prescribed in the relevant Best Available Techniques applied in the refinery’s daily operations. Reference Documents (BREFs). The new BREFs for refineries are currently under consultation, and are Some typical examples of BAT applications are shown in expected to be published before the end of 2014. the following table. MOTOR OIL incorporates the above-mentioned techniques, both during the design of new refinery units and when existing facilities are upgraded, in order to minimize the impacts arising from their operation, in 1. Use of efficient energy generation techniques, e.g. generating energy by gas turbines, combined-cycle facilities, efficient operation of boilers and furnaces. 2. Increasing the energy efficiency of the refinery by: 3. Use of clean gas fuel for the refinery, and, if a supplementary supply of energy is required it can be achieved through the use of liquid fuel in combination with techniques to control pollution, or use of gas fuels (natural gas, LPG). For example: efficiency). 5. Control of particle emissions 6. Limiting emissions through continuous monitoring of the sulphur content in fuel. 65 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 system makes a significant contribution to reducing the environmental impact of the production process, through automation of the process and optimal monitoring of operating parameters. 14001,OHSAS18001). C. ANTI-POLLUTION TECHNOLOGY UNITS shedding systems, emergency amine systems, multiple wash down systems). D. ANCILLARY FACILITIES recycling of cooling water. placing second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, using special valves (low leaking) and double-seal pumps, implementation of international construction and piping codes, and so on. emissions and volatile organic compounds from all kinds of equipment. devices, as well as model laboratory methods. cartridges, etc. 66 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 5. ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is one of the most important global challenges for human health, for social cohesion, for economic development and for the security of food supplies. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Therefore, in compliance with the principles of Change (IPCC), changes to the climate itself (increased responsible business activity and sustainable average temperature, changes to atmospheric conditions, development, we are committed to: etc.), and the effects of such changes (altered ecosystem composition, reduced polar ice caps, observed variations in the duration of each season, etc.) are already clearly performance with respect to the use of energy and the detectable. reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. It has been widely accepted that the principal cause of climate change is the increased concentration of technologies that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere: most importantly emissions. carbon dioxide (CO2), but also methane (CH4), chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) 2 other stakeholders in planning and implementing technologically feasible and financially viable It is our view that the battle against climate change environmental protection policies. In this context we must transcend natural or political borders; it requires participated in 2013 in the national research projects cooperation and coordinated action on the global level, SIMPLE and HYDROSOL PLUS to promote research and as well as commitment by all groups of stakeholders, develop cutting-edge technology in the area of climate including consumers. Education in the rational use of change. energy, and the other diminishing resources, like water, with a consequent change in attitudes, are significant parameters in the likelihood of success of all other measures. 5.1. ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT The process of refining crude oil into final products is highly energy-intensive. Requirements for energy (i.e. electric power, fuel oil, fuel gas and natural gas) are such that its rational use is of paramount importance, both for the environment and for the company’s economic results. The refinery’s “energy footprint”, therefore, is an important consideration that leads us actively to seek to identify areas where there is potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement appropriate projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or equivalent technologies. The projects completed in 2013 and preceding years, as maintenance programmes all these have contributed part of our ongoing programme to improve the energy to the achievement of a significant reduction in the efficiency of the refinery, as well as the expansion and refinery`s energy consumption. The reduction in energy upgrading projects (new Crude Distillation Unit, with consumption has been achieved despite the increase in special emphasis on reducing energy consumption, use volume of production. As a result, in 2013, the refinery of new generation catalysts in new Sulphur Recovery achieved a reduction of 31.8 % in the specific energy Units, introduction of natural gas into refinery fuel mix, consumption, compared with 2007 (2.46 TJ per thousand replacement or major maintenance of gas turbines, tons of raw materials, down from 3.61 TJ). upgrading or replacement of pre-heat furnaces, increase in condensate recovery rate, installation of Advanced Control System, etc.), in combination with systematic monitoring of energy efficiency and preventive 67 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 29,033 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 27,550 27,848 27,139 26,952 26,912 26,146 3.61 CONSUMPTION OF 3.42 3.22 2.81 2.79 2.50 2.46 SPECIFIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION -31.8% OF RAW MATERIALS) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 USE OF NATURAL GAS POWER AND STEAM COGENERATION PLANT Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in The Cogeneration Plant, following completion of 2008 was an important step towards reducing its installation of the new turbine in 2011, now includes five carbon footprint, while also improving financial and gas turbines, with a total active power of 85 MW, and environmental results, given that the use of natural gas three boilers recovering heat from the exhaust fumes reduces CO2 emissions and is the economically most generated. These boilers generate about 140 tons of high efficient way of generating electricity and producing and low pressure steam per hour, making the refinery hydrogen. self-sufficient in electricity as it eliminates the need to draw power from the Public Power Corporation grid and Natural gas is used: meeting most of its need for steam. production unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which The operation of the Plant also contributes to the allows the quantities of carbon dioxide emitted to be reduction of greenhouse gas emissions at a national reduced by approximately 8% and 19%, respectively. level by drastically reducing electricity consumption from the national grid, the production of which would require a different fuel mix. Moreover, heat recovery and steam gas turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, generation at the refinery reduce the use of boilers. achieving a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as The resulting benefit for the environment in terms of much as 16%. lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity is indicated in the table below: refinery’s pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers in the place of heavy fuel oil fractions, thus both increasing energy efficiency and significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. 31.8% LESS ENERGY PER TON OF RAW MATERIALS IN 2013 THAN IN 2007 68 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AVOIDING CO2 EMISSIONS (TONS) BY COGENERATION OF ELECTRICITY AND STEAM 2010 318,000 2011 319,000 2012 345,000 2013 336,000 In addition, the Power Management System (Best Continual care is also taken to maximize recovery Available Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, of gases, so that they can be used as fuel and their protects the refinery from partial or complete shutdown combustion in the flare minimized. owing to a failure of the internal or external power network, significantly increasing the level of safety and DESALINATION reliability, thereby improving environmental efficiency. Desalination of seawater using reverse osmosis technology is the most energy-efficient method. Extensive UPGRADING OF PREHEATING FURNACES AND use is made of this technique, with four units in operation BOILERS (the most recent was installed in August 2013). The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure more effective use of the heat from the exhaust fumes, MONITORING AND DAILY PRACTICE thereby reducing consumption of fuel, CO2 emissions The energy performance of production units is constantly and emissions of other atmospheric pollutants. A monitored, so as to correct any malfunctions that come rolling programme is under way to upgrade the refinery to light. The Advanced Process Control system, through furnaces, introducing forced draft technology which continuous monitoring, achieves the optimisation of increases the efficiency of a furnace by more than energy use in the units where it has been installed. The 6% and replacing the existing boilers with new, more Advanced Process Control system has now been fully energy efficient boilers emitting less NOx. For example, operational at the refinery’s two crude distillation units upgrading of the crude oil preheating furnace (the since October 2013, making a significant contribution to refinery’s largest) at the Crude Distillation Unit in 2007 optimizing efficiency. resulted in an increase in thermal efficiency from 80% to 87%. With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance programme provides for: In 2013 work was under way on upgrading of the Visbreaker unit, which will involve replacement of the unit furnace with a new one, designed in accordance with best exchangers and air coolers in order to increase the practice, and expected to be 20% more thermally efficient percentage of heat recovery. than the existing furnace. Following the upgrading, scheduled for completion before the end of 2014, the unit is expected to have a much improved energy and equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the operational capacity, yielding significant benefits in both environment. economic and environmental terms. RECOVERY OF GASES AND CONDENSATES equipment, whose energy performance has fallen The recovery of condensates, which are then used in below specified levels, as a result of length of use. the steam boilers to produce steam, was maintained at high levels. Using the energy content of the condensates means reducing the gas and liquid fuel required to burners and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. generate steam in the steam boilers. 5.2. CO2 EMISSIONS 2013 was the first year of implementation of the new system for monitoring emissions of greenhouse gases, for the period 2013-2020. Apart from the need to reduce CO2 emissions, this phase of application will also be subject to rigorous specifications relating to accuracy of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. 69 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: as per the EN 17025:2005 standard includes the emissions of CO2 from its facilities that combines measurement of the carbon content of refinery fuel gas computational methods with the results of using gas chromatography. measurements taken by CO2 monitors installed on the flares of the Fuels, Lubricants and Hydrocracker In accordance with legal requirements, annual reports on complexes. Equipment that continuously measures carbon dioxide emissions are compiled and submitted to airflow and molecular weight is installed at the flare of the competent ministry. These reports are verified by an the Hydrocracker complex. accredited body as to their accuracy and validity. CO2 EMISSIONS 2,075 1,977 1,965 1,968 1,939 1,945 1,881 ANNUAL EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) 0.258 0.241 0.236 0.202 0.195 SPECIFIC ANNUAL 0.183 EMISSIONS (MT 0.178 OF CO2 -31% RAW MATERIALS) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total CO2 emissions for 2013 amount to 1,968 million tons, Finally, the transportation by coach of refinery personnel a value comparable with that of 2012. However, specific represents an indirect contribution to tackling climate CO2 emissions by ton of raw material in 2013 (0.178) are change, because CO2 emissions from use of private 2.7% lower than the corresponding figures for 2012 (0.183) vehicles belonging to the workforce are reduced, with and represent an overall decline of 31% from 2007 levels. more than half the refinery employees taking advantage of the coaches. As part of our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions we have been participating since 2013 in the national research project HYDROSOL PLUS, whose aim is to develop cutting-edge technology for the use of industrial waste 31% streams rich in CO2 as sources for the generation of solar FEWER CO2 EMISSIONS fuels. PER TON OF RAW MATERIAL IN 2013 THAN IN 2007 5.3. SHELL ECO-MARATHON Coral, owner of the Shell trademarks in Greece, actively supports the Shell Eco Marathon, a global initiative whose main aim is to promote sustainability in transport, innovation and energy efficiency. Coral invites schoolchildren and students from Greece to compete in this leading educational programme organized by Shell, with teams from all over Europe, constructing energy-efficient vehicles. The winning team will be the one, that travels the greatest distance with the equivalent of one litre of fuel of its own choice: Traditional internal combustion engines burning petrol or diesel, engines using biofuels, electric motors, hydrogen cells or solar panels are concealed beneath the exterior of modern, futuristic vehicles which cut a striking figure on the race track. 70 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Greek teams from leading universities and technical The Crete Polytechnic, with its team “TUC Eco Racing”, colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the counparticipating for the 6th time, achieved a performance of try, have been participating since 2004 in the Shell Eco Marathon. 2013 was another very good year for the Greek securing 4th place in the Urban Concept large vehicle delegation, which for the first time was ranked first in offclass. Equally important distinctions won by the team track prizes. were the Energy Challenge prize, and the Public Prize. The Metsovio National Polytechnic, with its team called Finally, the Mechanical Engineering Department of the “Prometheus”, took part in the competition for the 5th Piraeus Technical College, with its team “Eco Evolution”, year in a row and took 13th position among 36 teams, in took part in the competition for the 3rd time. It entered the Battery Electric category, achieving a performance of the Prototype (electric battery) class with its completely 316.86 km/kWh with its ground-breaking electric vehicle redesigned vehicle, but unfortunately was compelled to “Pyrphoros”. It also won the Best Team Spirit prize, for the abandon its attempt in the 3rd round, owing to a problem team spirit it demonstrated during the entire competition. with the transmission chain. 6. AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our refinery. Our commitment to ongoing improvement in this area is not just a response to legal obligation; it is also required by implementation of the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility we have adopted, which mean that we regard atmospheric quality as an important issue. CO2, NOX, SO2, Suspended particles. Gaseous emissions from point sources of combustion SO2, H2S Hydrogen sulphide emissions of H2S are conversion of hydrogen sulphide into sulphur, followed by combustion of minimal, due to their full conversion into solid residual gases) sulphur VOCs Emissions Emissions of volatile organic compounds originate from the fuel storage tanks, from products operation of the API oil separators, and from leakages which may occur during intra-refinery fuels movement. EMISSIONS MONITORING To protect and improve air quality, air pollutant emissions In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is are monitored using a wide range of techniques; statemonitored at four stations: of-the-art measurement equipment is employed. The measurement programme, including continuous as well continuously measuring the concentration of hydrogen as intermittent readings, covers both point and diffuse sulphide (H2S) and sulphur dioxide (SO2). emission sources. 71 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 the-art measuring and recording devices, which can furnaces. Operation of both the Sulphur Recovery units, perform a wide range of measurements, including and the afterburners, is automatically controlled via the meteorological parameters (wind speed and direction, refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS). air temperature and relative humidity), and the 2 and NOx), CLEAN FUELS INTEGRATED SULPHUR MANAGEMENT sulphur dioxide (SO2), hydrogen sulphide (H2S), SYSTEM carbon monoxide (CO), methane, total hydrocarbons, Refineries are faced with the following paradox: the hydrocarbons excluding methane (CH4, NMHC, THC), amount of sulphur in the available crude oil types benzene, and particulate matter PM10 and PM2.5. is increasing over time, while the specifications for allowable sulphur content in the fuels produced have Within the refinery, flue gases from the stacks of reached extremely low levels (e.g. for petrol and the main combustion plants (point emissions) of the automotive diesel, the 2009 specification for sulphur Fuels, Hydrocracking and Lubricants complexes are content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the equivalent continuously monitored by online analysers. The of 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum acceptable level parameters monitored are: concentrations of oxygen, of sulphur emissions is also low, since the content of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and suspended particles sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere around a refinery, on in flue gases, as well as temperature, flow and pressure an hourly basis, should not exceed 350 mg/m³. In this of flue gases. context, the removal of sulphur coming into the refinery with crude oil -at a concentration varying between 0.5 and As in the case of the main refinery stacks, the main 2.0%is a significant challenge. pipelines channelling gases to the flares of the Combustion, Lubricants and Hydrocracking units are MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with subject to continuous flow measurement. Moreover, there respect for the environment, has in place a particularly is continuous measurement of concentration of overall effective system which incorporates Best Available sulphur in flue gases in the flares of the combustion and Techniques, in order to achieve the best results, both in hydrocracking units. terms of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and minimising the amount of energy consumed. At the Catalytic Cracking Unit there is continuous monitoring of the flow, humidity, pressure and In this way the company is able to produce and market temperature of the flue gases, the concentration of petrol and automotive diesel with a sulphur content oxygen and carbon monoxide, of sulphur dioxide, of of less than 10 ppm, having brought on line in 2005 its nitrogen oxides and of suspended particles. Hydrocracker Plant, an investment worth more than 350 million euros. It should be noted that all analysers are connected to the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a This results in reduced sulphur emissions within the configuration that allows for the complete control of the refinery, while the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide combustion taking place in the furnaces. conversion into elemental sulphur in the new SCOT-type Sulphur Recovery units -commissioned in 2010reaches Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored 99.95%. every three months by a suitably accredited external organisation. Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which by cooling and appropriate processing, is converted At the Sulphur Recovery units, there is an automated to a solid granular form, stored in silos for sale as performance control system that operates, which a raw material for the production of sulphuric acid continuously monitors and records H2S concentrations and fertilisers. The whole process is carried out in a at the entry points, and H2 2 concentrations at completely closed circuit, thus avoiding the dispersing of the exit points of these units. Also, the H2 2 ratio is sulphur particles in the air, and minimising entirely any continuously measured, recorded and adjusted, so as environmental impacts. to ensure maximization of recovery performance (which is of the order of >99.5% in the case of the new, SCOTtype units). The smooth operation of the afterburners (incinerators) associated with these units is achieved 2 2 at the exit points, and of the temperature at the radiant section of the 72 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT CONTROLLING EMISSIONS conversion unit involved replacement of the furnace Apart from the measures to control concentrations burners with new, low NOx burners. of airborne pollutants, within the refinery a range of measures has been taken to limit atmospheric pollution, such as: of various measures, including: the installation of closed circuits in gas processes; the routing of gases released from safety valves to the flares; the installation of in flue gases from the Catalytic Cracking unit is achieved secondary seals in floating roof tanks; the installation of by means of an electrostatic precipitator at the exit floating covers on oil separators; and the installation of point from the unit. This reduces total emissions of a vapour recovery unit at the Truck Loading Terminal at suspended particles to levels far below the permitted the same time as bottom-loading of road tankers was limits. introduced. desulphurised (as a result of which sulphur dioxide also installed at all AVIN OIL and Coral terminals, and emissions are minimised) before entering the refinery bottom-loading of road tankers is in use at all terminals fuel gas system. (except for that at Kavala). each old furnace, involves the installation of low NOx AVIN OIL and Coral retail stations, for use during the burners, significantly reducing nitrogen oxide emissions. unloading of gasoline from road tankers, in accordance In 2013, upgrading of the furnaces of the catalytic with relevant requirements of EU directive 94/63 (Stage 1). A modern refinery comprises many different types of installed equipment, through which large quantities of raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and final products. In such a system, it is to be expected that there will be particular points with a higher risk of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the atmosphere. In order to contain such fugitive emissions from equipment, a programme of periodic checks of selected equipment points is implemented (better known in the industry as LDAR Leak Detection and Repair) for detecting fugitive emissions and immediately repairing the leaks causing these emissions. Fugitive emissions may arise from valves, pumps, flanges and other related equipment installed on pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage tanks on the site. In 2013, 6,171 points were inspected as part of the LDAR programme at the MOTOR OIL refinery, covering all production units, the Truck Loading Terminals, port facilities, storage tanks and oil separators. The various points were checked by refinery staff at least once a year, using portable equipment to measure volatile carbon concentration. In the event that concentrations are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for the equipment checked is issued. In 2013 13,661 checks were carried out, identifying 37 points requiring attention. IN NUMBERS The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. In 2013 there was an increase in total emissions, and in the value of SO2 emitted per ton of raw material. This increase was due to more general economic factors shaping the refinery market in 2013, keeping prices of natural gas very high and leading many refineries to reduce its use in their fuel mix, replacing it with other traditional fuels (fuel oil). However, the long-term downward trend remained, as did our commitment to achieve ever lower levels of emissions. 73 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 4.6 4.6 4.5 SULPHUR DIOXIDE 3.7 EMISSIONS 3.4 3.0 -44.6% 2.8 ANNUAL 0.56 0.58 0.55 EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) 0.40 0.28 0.31 0.28 SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS (KG OF SO2 MATERIAL) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 As far as air quality during 2013 is concerned, the hydrocarbons in the atmosphere, focusing on the nearest processing of the recordings at the four air quality inhabited area, Agioi Theodoroi. Results to date have been monitoring stations, in the context of the emissions highly satisfactory. monitoring programme, has shown, as in previous years, that air quality in the vicinity of the refinery remains highly satisfactory. Detailed figures for the last five years show that there has been no exceeding of the hourly and daily 44.6 % levels permitted by legislation, and the recorded values FEWER SO2 EMISSIONS are much lower than the limit values allowed. PER TON OF RAW MATERIAL IN 2013 THAN IN 2007 The diagrams below show the annual average values of SO2, NO2 and PM10 particulate matter over the past seven years. 2013 also saw continuation of the programme to measure atmospheric concentration of heavy metals and polycyclic μg/m3 AVERAGE ANNUAL CONCENTRATION 140 OF SO2 Daily limit value 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 74 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT μg/m3 70 AVERAGE ANNUAL CONCENTRATION 60 Daily limit value OF SUSPENDED 50 PARTICLES PM10 40 30 20 10 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 μg/m3 250 AVERAGE ANNUAL CONCENTRATION 200 Hourly limit value 2 150 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Further related information on control of emissions during 2013 can be found in the Environmental Statement 2013, which presents diagrams relating to all air pollutants. 7. LIQUID WASTE MANAGEMENT Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. The management and processing of liquid waste is a The effectiveness of operation of the Industrial Waste material issue for the company, which incorporates Best Water Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that Available Techniques, while due to their different pollutant concentrations of various pollutant substances at the plant load, the industrial and urban waste streams undergo outlet are clearly below relevant limit values. In the case different types of processing prior to their final disposal. of some substances (including benzene, toluene, ethyl Industrial liquid waste is pre-processed and then taken to benzene, xylene and a number of heavy metals), their the Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant, while urban concentrations are very much below corresponding limit waste is removed to the Urban Waste Treatment Plant. values, approaching the limits of detection in some cases. The residual sludge left after the waste is processed, is dehydrated and compressed prior to final disposal, according to the approved refinery environmental terms. 75 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 TREATMENT PLANT (AVERAGE ANNUAL VALUES) AVERAGE VALUE LIMIT PARAMETER 2010 2011 2012 2013 VALUE Supply (m3/day) 10,529 10,663 10,968 9,485 pH 7.6 7.6 8.0 7.4 6-9 Temperature ( C) 30.5 28.0 24.1 25.4 35 Oil (mg/l) 3.3 4.0 2.5 2.2 10 BOD5 (mg/l) 23.4 24.0 23.7 24.5 40 COD (mg/l) 106.0 105.0 104.6 104.9 150 NH3 (mg/l) 13.8 13.8 13.3 13.4 15 Phenols (mg/l) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.5 Sulphurs (mg/l) 0.9 1.1 1.0 1.1 2 Suspended solids (mg/l) 16.9 18.0 17.2 16.7 40 near the refinery. The study was conducted by the based on a hydro-geological study submitted to the Applied Geo-Chemistry Laboratory of the Geology Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Department, University of Patras. According to the Change, takes place at 8 boreholes. During 2013 two project director, Professor S. Varnavas: «the evaluation sets of samples were taken at these boreholes one of the results demonstrates that in every respect the every six monthsin order to determine the value of a environmental conditions prevailing in the coastal number of parameters, such as concentrations of heavy area of the MOTOR OIL refinery show the normal metals and hydrocarbons, the results of which were characteristics of a coastal area, with the facilities found to meet legislative requirements. having no impact on the environment». monitor conditions in the seawater of the coastal area 8. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT RECYCLING Management of the solid waste generated by refinery operations is a material issue for the company. Waste management is based on an integrated process covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste in one of the following ways: recycling outside the refinery; recovery outside the refinery; final disposal outside the refinery; or processing within the refinery and re-use. The main aims of the solid waste management Spent catalysts, which, depending on the particular case programme are: may be classified as hazardous solid waste, are disposed of in a number of ways (either exported, or regenerated for re-use by specialised firms abroad, or used in cement manufacture). Empty hazardous substance containers are also disposed of by licensed companies. source, wherever possible, The company, as a solid waste producer, submits an annual report to the competent departments of the recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change regeneration, and finally, which records all types of solid waste arising from its operations and how solid waste is handled, while identifying the legally-approved recipients. risk human health or the environment. As far as used lubricants and their packaging is Only licensed companies specializing in the handling of concerned, contracts are in place with a firm specialised solid waste are used for carrying out disposal of such in used mineral oil recycling and with a firm specialised waste. in handling packaging materials. These two contracts 76 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT provide for recycling of used lubricants and their We also collaborate with accredited firms specialised packaging, thus contributing to the protection of the in the recycling of batteries, ink toner cartridges, motor environment and the rational use of raw materials. vehicle tyres, bulbs and computers. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Batteries 3.1 10.6 11.3 5.2 4.5 Tyres 3.3 8.1 7.1 4.0 Lubricants 1 4.5 113.1 45.4 2.2 192.1 Wooden packaging 15.2 123.4 58.4 39.5 88.7 Paper and paper packaging 2,3 35.7 21.1 34.9 38.3 156.6 Plastics and plastic packaging 0.4 377.8 14.4 44.1 228.2 Metals (scrap) 1,012 1,395 2,219 1,000 1,431 Electrical/electronic equipment 3.9 2.7 0.8 1.2 0.9 Contaminated soil 439.9 112.0 11.0 Contaminated packaging 26.0 8.5 44.8 27.1 20.6 Materials containing asbestos 20.5 7.8 13.3 Printer toner packaging (items) 3 1,800 2,150 949 2,183 369 1. These quantities refer to the refinery alone, since corresponding reliable figures for the AVIN OIL and CORAL retail networks are not available. 2. Recycled and non-chemically bleached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. 3. Money raised from paper and toner cartridges recycling at the Group Head Offices is donated to the “ELPIDA” Foundation. RECOVERY OF RAW MATERIALS A special form of recycling is the recovery of raw materials from various waste streams in order to minimise the loss of raw materials (reprocessing). Major efforts are made to maximise reprocessing due to its environmental and economic significance; the aim is, firstly, to minimise the presence of raw materials in the waste streams and, secondly, to maximise the amount recovered. RECOVERY OF RAW MATERIALS (MT) 2010 51,000 2011 67,300 2012 56,600 2013 87,300 9. WATER MANAGEMENT MOTOR OIL views water resource management as a material issue and has consistently implemented measures to reduce and rationally manage water consumption at its refinery. The water used in the various parts of the refinery need to purchase additional fresh water on the open is sea water processed at desalination units. The market. desalination is effected using both multi-stage flashing and reverse osmosis techniques, the latter being the Thus while in 2007 the volume of incoming water was preferred method from an environmental and economic 125 thousand m3, over the next two years the quantity fell perspective. The refinery’s desalination system now below 10,000 m3, although in 2010 an additional 82,000 m3 has 3 MSF units and 4 RO units. This system allows full was required owing to the expansion of the refinery. Since coverage of the refinery’s water needs, eliminating the 2011 the quantity of incoming water has been reduced to 77 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 zero, except in 2012, when just 4,000 m3 were purchased. ton of raw material. This extremely good performance is due to the major efforts made by the company and It should also be noted that since 2008 the refinery has the substantial investment in projects to improve energy been steadily reducing the quantity of water consumed efficiency at the refinery (reduction of steam consumed, for each ton of raw materials, with this value at the end operational improvements, etc.). of 2013 standing at 0.304 cubic metres of water for each 0.391 0.321 0.304 0.375 0.375 0.328 0.317 INCOMING WATER ANNUAL (THOUSAND M3) DESALINATED CONSUMPTION OF -18,9% WATER (THOUSAND M3) WATER 125 3,145 3,129 2,962 3,166 3,451 3,355 TOTAL 2,894 CONSUMPTION 3,149 3,137 3,044 3,166 3,455 3,355 (THOUSAND M3) 3,019 82 SPECIFIC WATER 4 8 0 4 0 CONSUMPTION (M3 MATERIALS) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 RE-USE AND RECYCLING OF WATER One of the important processes at the refinery is the the rest is channelled to the Industrial Waste Water processing of the acid water flows generated in different Treatment Plant, allowing a proportional reduction in phases of the production process, in order to remove consumption of fresh water and in the volume of wastes hydrogen sulphate and ammonia. About 50% of this water needing treatment. flow is recycled to feed the crude oil desalinators, while 10. NOISE MANAGEMENT Noise caused by industrial facilities, such as the refinery, is a natural and unavoidable consequence of the activities taking place. MOTOR OIL makes every effort possible to reduce noise levels and thereby limit the nuisance caused to those living around the refinery, carrying out measurements at regular intervals at set points around the facility and taking a number of measures. Results of measurements for 2013 are set out in the table below and show that noise levels are lower than the legal limits laid down in the environmental operating conditions of the refinery. AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE LEGISLATIVE LIMITS MEASUREMENT MEASUREMENT MEASUREMENT (DBA) FOR JANUARY FOR JUNE 2013 FOR OCTOBER 2013 2013 (DBA) (DBA) (DBA) Perimeter of refinery facility 53.0 53.5 52.9 65.0 Southern refinery perimeter 52.3 52.9 52.1 55.0 Particular care is also taken with the new projects being placing of noise screens and procurement of equipment carried out at the refinery. For example, at the new with low noise emission levels) to ensure that the new electricity generation plant (5th gas turbine), and at the units will make the minimal difference to overall noise new thermal pyrolysis unit furnace, special measures levels at the refinery. have been taken (installation of noise suppressors, 78 04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 11. PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery is completely linked with the marine environment. Owing to the extensive impacts of a potential pollution incident, both for the marine ecosystem and the economic and social life of adjacent areas, as well as the tremendous expense that rehabilitation would involve, extensive prior planning and preparation for prevention of, and successfully responding to, such incidents is imperative. Within this context we have secured ISO14001:2004 certification for the company’s Environmental dispersant, which can be used only with the consent of Management System and have voluntarily adopted and the Port Authorities. implemented the EMAS Community System for EcoManagement and Audit. It should be noted that no parts anti-contamination plans and maintains a high degree of the refinery abut on natural habitats or protected areas of readiness among staff to use the equipment involved, which might be affected by its operations. with an annual programme of drills. It should be noted that the scenario in the above drills involves more Moreover, MOTOR OIL: general refinery safety issues as well as security issues for the port and vessels. measures to minimize the risk of oil spills during the operation of its refinery. In 2013 not a single leak was whose aim is the prevention and timely response to reported. oil spill incidents (see Participations Collaborations section in chapter 1). equipment for the safe sail in and sail out of tankers at its port facilities, as well as for the safe loading/ unloading thereof. a small or medium-scale local contamination incident 12. REFINERY COMMUNICATION WITH LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS MOTOR OIL uses various means of keeping Local Authorities and other stakeholders informed of its activities, either by involving its own staff in conferences and meetings, or keeping local organisations informed about its investment plans and its programmes relating to environmental protection. Besides briefing Local Authorities, the company also In 2010, the number of complaints was relatively large, maintains open communication lines with refinery because of the procedures involved in preparing for neighbours, listening and responding to any complaints opening of the new Crude Distillation Unit, but as soon as they may have. There is a specific procedure at the that work was completed the number of complaints fell to refinery on the basis of which complaints lodged by local the levels of previous years. A total of 29 complaints from people are recorded, investigated and evaluated, and local people were received in 2013. depending on the cause of the nuisance the suitable corrective measures are taken, either immediately or in the long term. Typical examples of actions to reduce disturbance are: the selection of low noise-emitting equipment wherever possible; the installation of sound curtains on the compressors at the Waste Water Treatment Plant; installation of a foam breakdown system at the same facility, and the installation of a silencer on a steam exhaust line at the Hydrocracker complex. 79 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 04 COMPLAINTS RECORDED 2010 61 2011 30 2012 26 2013 29 13. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION An essential aspect of our environmental policy is to rigorously comply with the environmental operating terms of our operating licence as laid down by the relevant state authorities, and with all the other related obligations arising from the effective Greek and European environmental legislation. Moreover, our investment programme does not only aim at timely compliance with any new requirements, but also provides for implementing projects that go beyond the requirements of the current legislation. In addition we fully comply with all reporting requirements of current legislation. During 2013: measurements of the control parameters (benzene, and Climate Change the greenhouse gas emissions toluene, xylene and ethyl benzene) at the outlet of the report for 2012, as well as the plan for monitoring of Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant. greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020. polycyclic hydrocarbons in the surrounding atmosphere hazardous solid waste for 2012 was submitted to the were submitted to the Ministry of Environment, Energy same Ministry and to the Peloponnese Regional and and Climate Change. Prefectural Authorities; to the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate Energy and Climate Change, and to the Peloponnese Change, in accordance with the requirements of EMAS and Corinth Regional Authorities, the annual report on ER 1221/2009. The company is registered with the environmental quality for 2012, as well as the sixEuropean Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), monthly reports on emissions of pollutants from the and in the corresponding Hellenic Register, under main stack of the Middle Hydrocracker Unit. number EL 000067. and Transfer Register (EPRTR) for the year 2012 was the Waste Collection and Management Plan for ships submitted to the National Centre for the Environment mooring at the refinery port facilities. Thus there were no fines or sanctions imposed by the competent agencies for non-compliance with In addition: environmental legislation. OIL port installations was submitted to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. Energy and Climate Change, detailing the results of the 05 Social Responsibility 35 MILLION EUROS 2.6 MILLION EUROS SPENT ON SOCIAL SPENT ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITy RESPONSIBILITy PROJECTS PROJECTS OVER THE LAST IN THE yEAR 2013 TEN yEARS We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Our sense of responsibility to society is expressed, first and foremost, through our contribution to the general recovery and consolidation of our nation’s economy. It is of vital importance to us that our activities should benefit the local communities where our facilities are located, by way of job creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity and purchasing goods and services from local suppliers. Moreover, we believe that our business activities should be based on positive and productive interaction with the social environment in which we operate. Our responsibility towards society is to participate actively in shaping a value-based society with a future built on optimism and respect for human values. It is for these reasons that the MOTOR OIL Group implements a programme of donations and sponsorships addressed directly to local communities, designed to help improve quality of life, protect the environment and foster a healthy social and cultural life in local communities and across the country as a whole. Through our social responsibility projects we seek to demonstrate a steady, consistent support for the community, in line with our corporate objectives and values. We seek to support values which will improve the life of the community in culture, education, health care, sports and entrepreneurship. In 2013, as in previous years, our company’s social action focused on the financing and promotion of social solidarity programmes across the country, though our primary focus was placed on organizations and agencies based mainly in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. Our main objective was to relieve poverty among the most vulnerable social groups, and to help them meet their basic needs. To this end, we have promoted actions designed to bring relief to our fellow citizens, while also supporting cultural agencies, educational institutions, organizations engaged in charitable and humanitarian work, as well as local government agencies. In 2013, continuing the long tradition established by MOTOR OIL as a socially active corporate citizen, donations and sponsorships were made available to support many and varied activities by worthy organisations and institutions. The actions we have supported were chosen by the relevant executives of the company at the local and central levels, in accordance with the procedures set out in the relevant policy and in implementation of our strategy for social responsibility, which is structured along the following key axes: 82 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11.1% ALLOCATION 29.1% OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FUNDS IN 2013 10.1% 49.7% SOCIAL SOLIDARITY CULTURE YOUTH (EDUCATION SPORTS) HEATING OIL In 2013 the MOTOR OIL Group spent 2.6 million euros on social responsibility projects, raising the total spent to 35 million euros over the last ten years. It is one of the Group’s strategic objectives to bring prosperity to the communities around or in the general area of its refinery and the facilities of its commercial companies. This prosperity comes from job creation, support for the local market, and a general concern to develop constructive relations and open communication with nearby communities, in a spirit of reciprocal trust and respect. More than 600 of our employees live in the municipalities bordering on our refinery, while in 2013 we paid almost 1 million euros in municipal taxes and around 10.6 million euros on purchasing products and services from businesses in the region. The social responsibility programmes we support in our local communities are selected through a process of dialogue, communication and cooperation with the various authorities and agencies of the municipalities of Corinth and Loutraki and the communities of Agioi Theodoroi, Isthmia, Sofiko and Athikia. The main criteria used in selecting programmes for support is their contribution to development and progress for local communities, their strengthening of the social fabric and their use of synergies leading to more tangible products than a simple meeting of social needs. Finally, according to the supplementary indices of the Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate in areas where there are native populations, or where such populations might be affected by our activities, nor were there any significant disputes, involuntary movements of personnel or other impacts on local communities or native populations in 2013. 83 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 1. SOCIAL SOLIDARITY Our company’s primary objective is to promote and support actions designed to relieve the needs of less advantaged social groups. To this end, the company offers help to agencies that have demonstrated significant work in this area over a number of years. In 2013, as in previous years, with the economic crisis the indigent through municipal and church organizations, continuing to have a serious impact on the country supported the work of charitable organizations and and on our fellow citizens, we have made donations to foundations, supported actions for health and supplied organizations, institutions and agencies intended, inter large quantities of heating oil to the municipalities alia, to provide relief to impoverished families and help bordering on our refinery facilities and other selected them with their most basic needs. We have provided areas across the country. support for many community actions, provided food for 1.1. COMBATING POVERTY The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last few years has had as a direct result a dramatic increase in cases of poverty. In response to these new conditions, our company has undertaken to support the most vulnerable social groups, both by supplying the neediest with staple goods, and by specific grants of money. Actions have focused mainly on the Prefecture of Corinth, the final recipients including the Municipality of Loutraki-Agioi Theodoroi, the Municipality of Corinth and bordering communities, members of poor families, associations, and societies providing support services, and so on. It is our intention to play an active part, through practical measures, in efforts to combat poverty. At the same time we hope to promote social integration, by establishing viable and appropriate measures and programmes in the areas where we do business. THE FOOD BANK The MOTOR OIL Group has supported the Food Bank operating in the Municipalities of Loutraki and Corinth and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, playing an active part in meeting the basic needs of families in financial difficulty. Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, helping to ensure the continued operation of an institution responding to the difficult social and economic challenges of the present day. The donation by the MOTOR OIL Group has helped the more general endeavour, through which more than 1,700 families in financial difficulty have found relief. Additionally, in an effort to bring a little joy to families Persons Day Centre committee of Agioi Theodoroi, facing financial difficulties in Corinth and the surrounding churches, etc. region during Christmas and Easter holidays, MOTOR OIL distributed 1,260 cheques to help them meet basic Finally, the Group supplied food to the newly established needs and put food on the table on these special days. food and clothing bank set up by the Metropolitan Church During the holiday period it also distributed cheques and of Corinth, which helps to support 80 families in dire need, donations in the region and municipality of Corinth, the and the new Vulnerable Social Group Solidarity Fund set municipality of Loutraki, the municipal wards of Solygeiaup by the municipality of Marousi. Saronikos, Isthmia, Agioi Theodoroi, the Agia Olympia foundation, the Corinth detention centre, the local Elderly 84 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1.2. HEATING OIL AND LUBRICANT DONATIONS In the winter of 2013 the company made available around 200,000 litres of free heating oil, worth 260,000 euros. This social programme is intended to help with the cost children’s institution, the Institute for Thracian Art and of heating orphanages, nurseries, municipal childcare Tradition, police and traffic control departments, churches centres, secondary schools, elderly people’s homes, and so on. churches and church foundations located in areas bordering on the refinery, as well as other recipients in We have also supplied lubricant oils to government other parts of the country. Recipients included the Smile services in the Municipality of Corinth and the surrounding of the Child charity, all schools in Corinth, Loutraki, Agioi region. The main recipients included the Corinth Police Theodoroi, Isthmia, Saronikos, Solygeia, many schools in Department, the Loutraki Police Department, the Perama, the Isthmia Special Vocational Centre, the Corinth Xylokastro Police Department, the Kiato Highway Police, Special School, the Aghia Olympia Society, the Efthymeio the Megara Traffic Police, the Elefsina Traffic Police, the Centre in Corinth, the Corinth Music School, the Corinth Attiki Odos Traffic Police, the Isthmia Port Authority, etc. prison, the Corinth Fire Brigade, the Pammakaristos 1.3. SUPPORTING CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS Our objective is to make a real contribution consistently, methodically, with responsibility and sensitivity to improving living conditions for people with problems, helping organizations and foundations which offer high-quality services to assist them in their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. Specifically: for the Child and the Family. Set up by its President, of the KETHEA association, which offers guidance and UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Mrs Marianna V. assistance to people trying to come off drugs. Vardinoyiannis, the Foundation seeks to promote issues related to protection of children’s rights while improving like Panhellenic Society of Blind People, the Destitute living conditions for children in all areas. Amputees Association, the Welfare for Handicapped Children Society, the Welfare for the Blind and Disabled providing resources for their event reviewing 20 years charity, the association of the Friends of the Destitute of their work. Blind, the Argo society for sailors with children with special needs, etc. agency to combat poverty set up by the UNESCO Piraeus and the Islands Office in Keratsini. engaged in community work, like the Agioi Theodoroi Women’s Association, the Perahora Church of the support for the Efthymeio Centre for Treatment and Dormition, the Church of Agioi Anargyroi in Kalamaki, Rehabilitation of Persons with Special Needs, in the Children’s Sanctuary foundation and many others. Corinth. The Centre currently accommodates around 150 persons with disabilities, both in its treatment work of the Agioi Theodoroi branch of the Greek Red programmes and in its occupational preparation Cross, offering financial help to meet the operating and workshops. It has been widely acclaimed for the quality maintenance needs of their ambulance. of its services, providing specialist support alongside ongoing medical and social care. Hellas, helping with the organization of an event, and have offered support for the humanitarian and charitable work of UNICEF. 85 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 SUPPORT FOR THE ELDERLY Free meals for groups of old people in need. For more than ten years MOTOR OIL has been consistently involved in a very important community help scheme, in association with the Elderly People’s Day Centres of the Municipalities of Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi. The scheme supports disadvantaged elderly people by providing a full meal each day (365 days a year), and a snack supper of milk and yoghurt. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen, and is the same meal that is enjoyed by the refinery workforce. In 2013 the refinery canteen provided meals for 91 elderly people at the Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi Elderly People’s Day Care Centres. 1.4. SUPPORT FOR LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND OTHER AGENCIES Support for the local community is one of the company’s prime concerns. To this end, we do our best to provide effective assistance, meeting the needs of local authorities and actively helping them in their work. In 2013, the MOTOR OIL Group provided financial support the Association of Police Employees of Corinth and the for the Municipality of Loutraki Agioi Theodoroi, helping Marousi Police Department in repairing the motor of a with the purchase of materials to replace cables and service vehicle. restore the power supply and street lighting on the coastal road in the Kalamaki district. The Group also The company has also provided assistance to such supported the Agioi Theodoroi Volunteer Residents agencies as the General State Chemistry Laboratory Association in constructing a water supply network and Employees Association, the Greek Submariners in maintenance of the electrical equipment of the local Association, the Captains and Commanders Club, the organic waste treatment unit. Corinth Port Fund, the Association of Greek Criminal Lawyers, the Agia Eirini Association of Retired Police We have also helped the Greek Police in their difficult Officers, the Agioi Theodoroi local health centre, the work, offering joint donations with other members of the Koinonika Frontistiria social policy centre, the Panhellenic Corinth Chamber of Commerce to allow the purchase of Association of Retired Refinery Workers, the Isthmia a vehicle and help with repairs to other vehicles during Special Vocational Training Centre, etc. the course of the year. The Group has also assisted 1.5. ENVIRONMENT MOTOR OIL supports activities and programmes, which make an active contribution to improving infrastructures and raising public awareness of environmental protection and sustainable development issues. MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental In respect of water supplies, the company met the water associations and organizations (MEDASSET, etc.), making needs of about 190 people living near the refinery. The an active contribution to policies promoting environmental water, produced at the refinery by desalination, is used to protection. water gardens and for cleaning purposes. The supply of water to these houses, since the Agioi Theodoroi water Specifically, during 2013 the Group moved urgently to system does not cover them, relies on the network of provide personnel and material assistance in cases of pipes laid and maintained by MOTOR OIL. pollution occurring in Kiato and the Bay of Kalamaki, demonstrating a practical interest in conserving the In 2013, 88,000 cubic metres of water, worth more than quality of the area’s sea and beaches. 291,000 euros, were supplied free of charge. 86 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY “AGIOI THEODOROI” FOREST PROTECTION SOCIETY The Agioi Theodoroi Forest Protection Society was founded in the year 2000. With its three vehicles and other equipment it works always in association with the Fire Brigade and plays an important role in protecting and guarding the forest and helping to fight fires, within the municipal area of Ag. Theodoroi and farther afield. The MOTOR OIL Group has helped fund the Society’s activities, making a practical contribution to the protection of the environment and the forest life of the area. 2. CULTURE We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history in healthy social development, resting on firm spiritual and cultural foundations. We strive to offer many kinds of support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural and historical heritage. Cretan Centre, helping it tackle real financial difficulties, assistance to a number of agencies, including the local and thereby playing an active part in supporting its improvement societies Glykia Zoi, Ano Glykia Zoi, Ano invaluable work for Cretan students in financial trouble. Sousaki and Klara Elias, in Sousaki, Corinth, the Agioi Theodoroi Women’s Association, the Isthmia Special do every year, providing financial assistance to help it Vocational Training Centre, the Philothei Kenchraion organize its children’s festival. Association, the Agioi Theodoroi Volunteers’ Society, and others. Studies to organize conferences, and the Goulandri Museum of Natural History, by purchasing tickets. such organizations as the cultural societies of Loutraki, Isthmia and Examilia, the theatre club of Hiliomodi, Naftikis Istorias [A Voyage through Maritime History] the society of Amorgos islanders, the society of published each quarter by the Greek Maritime Museum, former residents of Perivolia-Myssiria, the Erotokritos and assisted the Hellenic Maritime Association in musical and dance club, the Asi Gonia association of publishing its journal Naftiki Ellas [Maritime Greece], a Attica, the Sesi and Protoporos cultural societies of traditional maritime magazine published every month by Agioi Theodoroi, the Agios Pavlos cultural society of the Naval Print Shop since 1928. Kenchraia, the Federation of Residents’ Associations of Agioi Theodoroi, the Agios Haralambos local Throughout the year 2013 MOTOR OIL has provided improvement society of Isthmia, the Ta Yeraneia society support to local newspapers and magazines in the of Loutraki, the Arakoukia society of Saronikos, the Ano Municipality of Corinth and Loutraki, which are having Kokkini Spilia local improvement society of Loutrakidifficulty in meeting their publishing costs, as well as Ag. Theodoroi, the Arion local improvement society supporting radio and TV stations. of Kyra Vrysi, the Psiloreitis association of Cretans of Corinth, the Association of Sfakianoi of the diaspora, The MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support and so on. The financial aid we provided consisted in for associations and agencies not just in communities donations for functional needs, indoor and outdoor near its facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as well. In spatial reconfiguration projects, building maintenance, Crete it has supported the Anoyeia cultural society, the road completion and clearing, road surfacing, lighting, Vrakoforon Society of Crete, the Rethymno History and water supplies and rainwater drainage pipes, cement Folklore Museum, etc. laying, covering fixed expenditure, advertisements, safety and creation of children’s recreation grounds, and so on. the country we supported the Municipality of LoutrakiAgioi Theodoroi in organizing the International Festival of Architectural Schools, held in Loutraki in May. 87 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 3. EDUCATION AND YOUTH Believing in the power of knowledge to cultivate the human personality, to help us advance as individuals and as a society, and to make us into active citizens guided by our consciences, we take a serious interest in supporting and promoting education, research and technology the three main pillars of knowledge, the driving force behind all progress, on which the future of society depends. In 2013 the MOTOR OIL Group: 1st and 2nd Primary Schools and Junior High of Agioi st Theodoroi, and the 6th Junior High and 2nd Vocational Child Day Centre, the 1st and 3rd Kindergarten and the Lykeion of Amarousi. Junior High School of Agioi Theodoroi, the Episkopi Kindergarten in Rethymno, the Athikia Primary School, Corinth, the Almyri Primary School and the Special tickets by the Corinth Special Primary School, the Primary School, Corinth. Isthmia Special Vocational Training Centre, children’s day care centres, kindergartens and primary schools in Agioi Theodoroi, kindergartens in Isthmia and the exchange programmes and excursions at the Episkopi Isthmia Primary School. Primary and Junior High Schools and 3rd Lykeion, the Rethymno Special Education School, the Rethymno 3rd Primary and 1st Junior High, the Spilio General Lykeion, Association of School Advisors to organise their first and the Agioi Theodoroi Lykeion. conference and to the University of Thessaly to organize the 5th Panhellenic Mineralogy Conference. computers, interactive chalkboards or printers to the Almyri Primary School, the Kyra Vrysi Kindergarten, the Perama, Crete and Ermioni, as well as other areas Panormos Mylopotamos Primary School of Rethymni, in Attica and across Greece, helping schools to run the Athikia Junior High, the Isthmia Junior High, the smoothly and providing better conditions for learning. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMME WITH THE SCHOOL OF FINE ARTS In 2012, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility programme, MOTOR OIL started a cooperation with the School of Fine Arts. The purpose of this initiative was to support the world of education and the arts and to provide financial help for young people wishing to continue their studies abroad. The collaboration involves the granting of a 12,000 euros scholarship each year to a graduate of the School to allow him or her to pursue postgraduate studies in the visual arts at a foreign university. The successful student is chosen by a panel consisting of two members from the School of Fine Arts and three members from MOTOR OIL. The work which receives the award becomes the property of MOTOR OIL, with the intention that a permanent exhibition will be gradually built up and exhibited in the company’s premises. At the same time, along with their portfolios the candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an exhibition to be staged at the head offices of the Group over a six-month period. 88 05 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY THE “VARDINOYANNEION” FOUNDATION The Vardinoyanneion Foundation, whose main sponsor is MOTOR OIL, was established in 1989 and is administered by a seven-member Board of Trustees. Its purpose is the granting of scholarships, awards and grants -without competitionto candidates who have distinguished themselves academically or who are in need of financial support to do undergraduate or postgraduate studies at colleges and universities here or abroad. The scholarships and grants help them to overcome any financial problems they may have and continue their studies without distraction. The areas of study and the scholarships available are not fixed, but change each academic year, by decision of the Board of Trustees. In the academic year 2013-2014 scholarships were made available to 56 students, in the following and other areas: economics, shipping, law, education, biology, business management, etc. Two undergraduate scholarships were also granted in Greece, in the area of medicine. Over the years since the Foundation was established, a total of 156 scholarships and 1,612 grants have been awarded. EDUCATIONAL VISITS TO THE REFINERY two months. The students fill various positions in the Every year we arrange visits to the refinery for students refinery and at head office. During their stay with us, at universities and technical colleges, Armed Forces the trainees have a chance to familiarize themselves production schools and ordinary secondary schools. with this particular working environment and join The idea is to allow visitors to learn about the operation in projects or working groups, with the support of of one of the most advanced refineries in Europe, with experienced managers who give up some of their time presentations and a guided tour of the production to mentoring the students. In addition to this, we give a facilities and workplaces, with information on the number of students the opportunity to do six months of environmental protection programmes developed and practical experience, when this forms part of the degree run by the company, as well as on its continuing and course they are taking. We also provide positions for varied programme of community work both in local foreign students to gain practical work experience, in communities and in society as a whole. During the 2013 collaboration with the International Association for the programme, around 223 persons visited the plant. Exchange of Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE). Furthermore, 45 persons visited the facilities of our As part of this activity in 2013 we filled 52 trainee positions commercial companies. of 1-2 months, and 21 positions of over two months, at a total cost of more than 122,000 euros. The total cost of the STUDENT WORK EXPERIENCE programme has amounted to 1,011,500 euros over the Every year the company takes on a number of students last eight years. for paid summer work experience, lasting from one to doing valuable work that has been acclaimed by the Greek political establishment and the world of the President of the Republic at a special ceremony. In order to contribute to promoting the Institute, the MOTOR OIL Group has acted as a sponsor, providing financial support for its invaluable social, cultural and educational work. 89 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 4. SPORTS We have always been convinced that engagement in sports is an excellent way to cultivate both mind and body, strengthening team spirit and a sense of fair play, and shaping healthy personalities. We offer our support to popular sports and competitions, as well as less popular sporting activities, and are also happy to offer substantial assistance to smaller clubs and sporting associations in the amateur sector. During 2013, the MOTOR OIL Group provided support for Isthmiakos Sports Club, the Korinthos Sports Club, the the following sporting clubs and associations: the Episkopi Friends of Olympiakos Club of Loutraki, the Ermionida Sporting Club of Rethymno, the Rethymno Women’s Sports Association, the Koronis Sports Club of Koilada, the Olympia 73 Sports Club based in Aigaleo, etc. the European Mini Football Federation, which staged the MiniEURO 2013 in Rethymno, and the Pamvohaikos Finally, every year MOTOR OIL makes a fully equipped Volleyball Team. ambulance and a doctor available for the famous Spartathlon long-distance race, also supporting the The company also provided assistance to the Ermis Control and Aid Centre located in front of the refinery. Zonianon Sports Club, the Spilio-Lambis Sports Club, the Once again this season AVIN OIL is sponsoring the Rethymno Gymnastics Club (AGOR), offering its loyal support to any activities that foster the sporting spirit and the efforts of young athletes in local communities. As a Major Sponsor AVIN OIL is a valuable ally to a team which is going from strength to strength, winning significant sporting trophies without compromising the values of fair play and good sportsmanship. In 2013 the emphasis was laid particularly on the community activities of the Rethymno team, with training for youngsters and help for less fortunate groups in the community. The “Shoot... from the regions” programme, sponsored exclusively by AVIN OIL, has given primary school children the chance to learn more about basketball by playing with players and coaches from the professional team. Apart from emphasizing the value of sport, these visits to Rethymno primary schools by players from the team offer expertise, material-technical equipment and personal contact and acquaintance with Greek and European athletes, helping the children acquire ambitions and good role models to emulate. 5. ENTREPRENEURSHIP As the largest economic force and employer in the Prefecture of Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes an important contribution to the community, creating direct and indirect income for a large number of businesses and families in the region (approximately 600 refinery employees live in neighbouring municipalities). As a key pillar of the region’s economic health and growth, the company supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it comes to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, food, etc. even when there are financially more advantageous offers from outside the area. In 2013 we spent 10.6m euros, thereby providing further support to the economy of Corinth and the surrounding region. NATIONAL TRADE FAIR “CORINTHIA 2013” Our company has provided assistance, as in past years, to the local trade fair, offering support to the 5th Panhellenic Fair ‘Corinth 2013’, which was held at the premises of the Corinth Pipeworks factory between 25-29 September and organized under the aegis of the Corinth Chamber of Commerce and with the support of the Thessaloniki International Trade Fair. The Fair, which has enjoyed financial support from MOTOR OIL every year, is an important event in the economic, social and cultural life of the region. 90 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 6. GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which constitutes the biggest Corporate Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became a signatory of the UN Global Compact; at the same time the company became a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas. The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We are committed to these principles, which we have integrated in the policies and processes of the company. MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report 2013 contains information relating to our social and environmental practices and the outcomes thereof, which underline our commitment to the Global Compact. The following chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with the ten Global Compact Principles, by making reference to the relevant chapters of the Sustainability Report 2013, and to the GRI indicators taken into account in compiling the Report. THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT REFERENCE IN THE SUSTAINABILITY GRI INDICATOR (G4) REPORT OR DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION APPROACH Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Chapters 2 and 3. G4-10, G4-11, G4 LA5-8, protection of internationally proclaimed human Full compliance with relevant Greek G4 HR4 rights. legislation and international conventions. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Chapter 2. G4 HR4 complicit in human rights abuses. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and international conventions. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of assoChapter 2. G4-11, ciation and the effective recognition of the right to G4 HR4 collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Chapter 2. There is no reference of an forms of forced and compulsory labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek indicator, as this has not emerged legislation and international conventions. as a material issue during the G4 process. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Chapter 2. There is no reference of an child labor. Full compliance with relevant Greek indicator, as this has not emerged legislation and international conventions. as a material issue during the G4 process. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Chapter 2. G4-10 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary apChapters 1 and 4. G4 EC2, proach to environmental challenges. G4-EN19, G4-EN31 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Chapters 1 and 4. G4 EN3-4, EN6, EN8-10, greater environmental responsibility. EN15-16, EN20-26, EN29, EN31 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development Chapters 1 and 4. G4-EN6, EN10, EN19, EN31 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Chapter 1. G4-15, G4-34, G4-56 its forms, including extortion and bribery. 91 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 7. GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL (G4-18, G4-19, G4-22, G4-23) The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. The Sustainability Report 2013 has a similar structure to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of performance over time. The information and data presented in the report concern the parent company MOTOR OIL, the Group subsidiaries AVIN OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS and OFC, which are controlled by MOTOR OIL, and whose activities have a significant impact on issues considered as material for sustainable development. The compilation of the Sustainability Report 2013 takes full consideration of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, just as in the four previous editions, however this year is based on the new edition of the GRI (version G4 In Accordance -Core). The GRI guidelines have provided a sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. The Sustainability Report 2013 is not certified by an external certification authority. REPORT METHODOLOGY (MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT) One of the most important and fundamental guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative is the concept of materiality. An organization is obliged to report on those matters which have the most significant economic, environmental and social impact, or those matters viewed as most significant by its internal and external stakeholders. Within this context, and in order to determine which issues are material to us, we have actively involved our stakeholders in order to arrive at a list of issues for this edition of our report. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE Given the nature of our business it is evident that our report will lay emphasis on matters of safety and the environment, as well as our social contribution, which are of major importance to our stakeholders. In selecting and ranking the material issues, we have used a detailed procedure based on the principles of relativity and importance. This procedure involved: Step 1: Determination and understanding of the issues significant to our stakeholders, through a process of research and focus groups made up of employees, local community, suppliers and customers. Step 2: Identification and understanding of significant issues, as these arise from the corporate strategy of MOTOR OIL, through internal procedures. For issues which can be measured in quantitative terms, such as greenhouse gas emissions, there are recognized methods of determining their materiality. For issues of a qualitative nature, various methods were used to assess their materiality, with the involvement of stakeholders. Step 3: Bringing together of the results into a matrix, and evaluation of each issue on the basis of its more general social, environmental and economic impact. Each issue was evaluated and given a materiality ranking in accordance with its importance to stakeholders and the company. The GRI recommends the presentation of the issues on a graph, with the X axis representing issues of importance to the company, and the Y axis those of importance to stakeholders. The issues located in the top right corner of the graph are regarded as the most material, as appears in the graph below. Step 4: Subsequently, the Report included all issues with the highest level of materiality. Issues of less materiality are mentioned only if they are affected by or dependent on issues of greater materiality. Step 5: The issues included were checked for fullness, relativity and balance by an external assurance company. On completion of the above steps, the following areas were referred to as material issues: local communities, health and safety in the workplace, staff training, greenhouse gas emissions, economic performance, energy, water, waste, trade unions. 92 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 ies s unit e u nion l comm Trad Loca 10 GRAPH OF MATERIAL Training ISSUES 8 CO2 emissions STAkEHOLDERS Human rights Energy 6 Non-discrimination Transport Economic performance Raw materials Logistics Waste Biodiversity Water 4 Forced labour Measures against corruption Child labour Marketing and Communication 2 Protection of customer data Product labelling 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 MOTOR OIL BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES (G4-20, G4-21) Boundaries Limitations Material Issues Within the Organization Outside the Within the Outside the Organization Organization Organization Local ComConcerns the parent company Local communities and munities MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN local authorities. OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Health and Concerns the parent company Contractors’ staff and Safety MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN tank lorry drivers of 3rd OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which party companies. are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Staff Training Concerns the parent company Contractors’ staff and MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN tank lorry drivers of 3rd OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which party companies. are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Emissions of Concerns the parent company Local communities and Data only for the greenhouse MOTOR OIL. public authorities. refinery. gases Economic Concerns the parent company Shareholders, investors, performance MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN analysts, partners, OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which suppliers, customers. are controlled by MOTOR OIL. Energy Concerns the parent company Data only for the MOTOR OIL. refinery. Water Concerns the parent company Local Communities Data only for the MOTOR OIL. refinery. Waste Concerns the parent company Local communities and Data only for the MOTOR OIL. public authorities. refinery. Unions Concerns the parent company MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL. 93 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data or performance indicators are presented, the method of data collection and calculation of results is also stated. The Environmental and Health and Safety performance indicators are specifically calculated according to internationally accepted procedures. Also in chapter 4 “Responsibility for the Environment” the data relating to investments and recycling refer to the whole MOTOR OIL Group, whereas other indicators in this chapter refer solely to the MOTOR OIL refinery. The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the column headed “Reference” the source of information relating to each indicator is given. The symbols used in the table are: p.: indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2013 that include information on the indicator. : indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2013. : indicates reference to the company’s website. TABLE OF GRI.G4 INDICATORS GRI CONTENT INDEX FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” CORE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicator Description Reference External Assurance Company Profile G4-1 Management statement. p.5 No G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. p. 20-21, 62 p. 30-33 No Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organization. Back cover No G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. p. 11-14, p. 12-13, 21-28, No G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters. Back cover No G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates. p. 15-16 No G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form. p. 12-13, 16-17, 29, p. 29, 38-42, No G4-8 Markets served. p. 12-13, 15-16, p. 11-12 No G4-9 Scale of the organization. p. 8-16, 21-24, 33-36, inside back cover, No p. 9-20, 92-93 G4-10 Workforce profile. p. 33-36 No G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining p. 33 No agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. p. 21 No G4-13 Significant organizational changes in the reporting period. p. 2-3, 23-24, p. 18-20 No G4-14 Application of the precautionary principle. p. 18, 24-26, 44-46, 58-61 No G4-15 Voluntary support for external economic, environmental and social p. 18-19 No charters or initiatives. G4-16 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations. p. 18-19 No Identified Material Issues and Boundaries G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial p. 12-13, p. 21-28 No statements. G4-18 Process for defining report content. p. 8-9, 91-93 No G4-19 Material Issues. p. 91-92 No G4-20 Issues boundaries and limitations within the organization. p. 92 No G4-21 Issues boundaries and limitations outside the organization. p. 92 No G4-22 Explanation of the reasons for re-stating information provided in p. 91 No earlier reports. G4-23 Changes from previous reports. p. 8-9, 91 No 94 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 External Indicator Description Reference Assurance Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. p. 28-29 No G4-25 Stakeholder identification. p. 28-29 No G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. p. 28-29 No G4-27 Topics raised by stakeholders. p. 20-21, 27-29 No G4-28 Reporting period. 1/1/2013 31/12/2013 No G4-29 Most recent previous report. p. 96 No G4-30 Reporting cycle. p. 8-9 No G4-31 Contact point for questions. p. 9 No G4-32 Location of the Standard GRI Disclosures. p. 93-95 No G4-33 External Assurance. p. 91 No Governance G4-34 Corporate governance structure. p. 16-18, p. 38-42, No Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Corporate policies, mission and value statements related to p. 4-5, 20-21, inside cover page No sustainability. GRI G4 GRI CONTENT INDEX FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” CORE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference External Assurance Category: Economic Economic G4-EC1 Directly generated and distributed economic p. 15-16, 21-23, p. 9-10 No Performance value. G4-EC2 Climate change financial implications, risks or Climate change impacts regarding the No opportunities. possible financial implications, risks or opportunities, constitute parameters thoroughly taken into account in the process of analysing, evaluating, approving and planning for investments or other initiatives. G4-EC4 Significant state financial assistance. MOTOR OIL has not received any significant No financial assistance from the state. Category: Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy p. 66-67 No source. G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 32,234 MWh, from the Electricity Market. No G4-EN5 Energy intensity. p. 66-68 No G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. p. 66-68 No Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. p. 76-77 No G4-EN9 Effects of water withdrawal. p. 76-77 No G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled p. 76-77 No and reused. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions. p. 68-69 No G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions. p. 70-74 No 95 SuStainability RepoRt 2013 External Material Aspects Indicators Description Reference Assurance G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions Intensity. p. 68-69 No G4EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. p. 68-69 No G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Non-existent. No G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. p. 70-74 No Effluents G4-EN22 Total water discharge. p. 77 No and Waste G4-EN23 Solid waste. p. 75-76 No G4-EN24 Significant spills. There were no significant spills. No G4-EN25 Quantity of hazardous solid waste. p. 75-76 No G4-EN26 Areas impacted by the organisation’s discharge Non-existent. No of water and runoff. Compliance G4-EN29 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliNo such fines or sanctions, p. 79 No ance with environmental laws. Investments G4-EN31 Environmental protection investments and p. 62-63 No expenses. Category: Social Occupational G4-LA5 Workforce representation in occupational The Health and Safety Committee of the No Health & Safety health and safety committees. refinery employees represents all staff. G4-LA6 Occupational injuries and lost day rates. p. 46-47 No G4-LA7 Occupational diseases. p. 46-47 No G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal p. 33, 45-46, 54-55 No agreements with trade unions. Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per p. 38-41 No Education employee. G4-LA10 Programs for skills development and lifelong p. 38-41 No learning. Local G4-SO1 Impacts on local communities. p. 80-89 No Communities Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations that limit freedom of association and No such operations, p. 33 No Association collective bargaining. and Collective Bargaining Sunstainability Reports of Previous Years KeY group Data For 2013 turnover 9,282 million euros Co2 eMissions earnings after tax (4.7) million euros 2,075 1,977 1,965 1,968 Dividents paid1 0.40 euros/share 1,939 1,881 1,945 total assets 2,343 million euros Refinery production 10.5 million tons 0.258 0.241 0.236 MotoR oil sales 12.0 million tons domestic sales 4.1 million tons 0.202 0.195 0.183 export sales 7.9 million tons 0.178 -31% 185,000 barrels/day Refinery storage tanks capacity 2.5 million cubic meters 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 petrol stations 1,200 annual eMissions (tHousanD Mt) speCiFiC annual eMissions (Mt oF Co2/Mt oF raW Materials) employees (annual average)2 1,800 people training man hours 17,700 hours total investments 2000-2013 1,374 million euros energY ConsuMption environmental investments 738 million euros 29,033 and expenses 2000-2013 27,550 27,848 27,139 Recycling Solid Waste Disposal 2,126 tons 26,952 26,912 26,146 Health and Safety investments 108.7 million euros 3.61 3.42 3.22 2000 2013 2.81 2.79 3 Social contribution 2002 2013 35 million euros 2.50 2.46 Social product 4 454.7 million euros -31.8% Refinery certifications ISO 9001:2008 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ISO 14001:2004 ISO 17025:2005 ConsuMption oF energY (tj) speCiFiC ConsuMption oF energY (tj/ tHousanD Mt oF raW Materials) OHSAS 18001:2007 EMAS III ER1221/2009 EN 12591:2009 (for asphalt) sulpHur DioxiDe eMissions 1. During the year, there was dividend distribution of 0.30 euro/share in 4.6 4.6 July 2013 and capital return of 0.10 euro/share in november 2013. 4.5 3.7 3.4 3.0 3. Refers to donations and sponsorships. -44.6% 2.8 4. Refers to the portion of revenues distributed to stakeholders. 0.56 0.58 0.55 0.40 0.28 0.31 0.28 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 annual eMissions (tHousanD Mt) speCiFiC annual eMissions (Kg oF so2/Mt oF raW Material) Motor oil group annual ConsuMption oF Water lost tiMe injurY FrequenCY inDex (ltiF)1 0.391 0.321 0.375 0.375 0.304 0.328 0.317 12.5 trend curve -18.9% 9.2 8.4 125 3,145 3,129 2,962 3,166 3,451 3,355 6.0 5.5 2,894 4.0 3,149 3,137 3,044 3,166 3,455 3,355 2.3 2.8 2.2 2.0 2.7 3,019 82 0.9 1.3 4 8 0 4 0 1993 1998 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1997 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 inCoMing Water DesalinateD total speCiFiC Water Frequency index = number of accidents per million working hours (tHousanD M3) Water ConsuMption ConsuMption (M3/Mt oF (tHousanD M3) (tHousanD M3) raW Materials) www.moh.gr Headquarters Refinery p.o.Box. 23 greeCe greeCe tel +30 210 8094000 tel +30 27410 48602, 48702
