Global Compact/ COP/2014/schmidt hammer lassen architects/ www.shl.dk Content/ About us/ Statement of support/CEO Bente Damgaard The UN Global Compact principles Give support/ Human Resource Management/ Sustainability/ Building Information Modelling/BIM Business Ethics/ Sustainable architecture/Selected projects The Nordic Built Charter/ Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway Green Valley/Shanghai/China Groendalsvej Zero-energy office building/Aarhus/Denmark Malmö Live/Malmö/Sweden New Hospital/Hvidovre/Denmark Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway About us/ “We design sustainable solutions that focus on the environment, the user and the overall economy. We constantly challenge the concept of sustainability, because each project must reach new standards.“ schmidt hammer lassen architects /Core values schmidt hammer lassen architects is an international architecture practice and one of Scandinavia’s most recognized, award-winning studios committed to innovative and sustainable design. Working out of studios located in Aarhus, Copenhagen, London, Shanghai and Singapore, the practice provides skilled architectural services all over the world. schmidt hammer lassen architects was founded in Denmark in 1986 and the practice has since grown substantially and employs 160 staff today. schmidt hammer lassen architects upholds a distinguished track record of architecture across a broad spectrum of building typologies and has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions with high emotional value that benefit the environment, society, user, and the overall economy. Adopting a holistic approach we believe that the basis of sustainable design is the understanding that every component influences the project. We continuously challenge the concept of architecture by adding innovative methodology and technology to classic Scandinavian design traditions. The result of this approach is manifested in our wide-ranging architecture portfolio of more than 28 years of successful projects. schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and submits COP #5 in December 2014. The group of partners includes senior partners Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, John F. Lassen, Kim Holst Jensen and Kristian Lars Ahlmark, The COP will be available on Global Compact’s website and on our company website: www.shl.dk along with partners Chris Hardie and Rong Lu. Day-to-day management of the practice is the responsibility of CEO Bente Damgaard. Statement of support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects maintains a strong and ambitious focus on CSR initiatives. We provide excellent sustainable architectural services with the overall goal to optimize existing standards for modern buildings and design all over the world for the benefit of society, people, environment, and the overall economy. The architectural field in a wide sense is identified as our primary sphere of influence. In all phases of our work, from acquisition, analysis, design phase, main project as well as construction management we pursue to perform with excellence. New knowledge is essential and our studio continually invests time and resources in expanding our expertise, competencies and knowledge. We believe that the world more than ever needs new architectural solutions to drive positive change. That is why we engage in innovative research projects, establish collaborative partnerships with both industry and higher education institutions, and offer targeted internal continuing education. We have procedures in place to ensure that new knowledge and best practice is integrated in each project. Bente Damgaard/ In COP 2014 we take the opportunity to report on CSR initiatives and achievements through selected MSc in Accounting & State Authorized Public Accountant CEO of schmidt hammer lassen architects since 2006. architectural projects. We describe how the holistic sustainability approach and integration of Building Information Modelling in project management delivers a high level of impact. We also address the Member of the Board of directors Chairwoman of Indigo Consortium internal focus on Human Resource management and how we deal with the challenges of increasing global activities. Honorary Offices Chairwoman of VL 103 Danish Business Network Elected Accountant/Business Aarhus schmidt hammer lassen architects has supported the Global Compact initiative since 2008 and the principles continuously constitute an important and essential policy frame of our CSR approach. Additionally we have signed the Nordic Built Charter and recently the Charter of the newly founded CSR Construction Association. I hereby state that we continuously support the UN initiative Global Compact and uphold the ten UN principles concerning; human rights, labour standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Bente Damgaard CEO at schmidt hammer lassen architects December 2014 The UN Global Compact schmidt hammer lassen architects joined the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative in 2008. Global Compact is the principles/ world‘s largest voluntary CSR initiative and initiates and supports corporate operational and strategic focus on social responsibility. This important initiative was started in 2000 under the leadership of then Secretary General Kofi Annan. The overall goal is to actively commit companies to work to improve the major social, economic and environmental challenges that follow globalization. Global Compact has today grown to be an extensive international network of more than 8,700 companies and other stakeholders from over 130 countries. The ten principles of Global Compact/ Global Compact‘s ten fundamental principles constitute the core of the stated objectives and cover four key focus areas: Human Rights human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed schmidt hammer lassen architects continuously supports human rights; and the Global Compact and the targeted focus areas. Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark Give support/ schmidt hammer lassen architects supports the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals. We work in compliance with Danish legislation which meets international conventions on human rights. Largest private donation for victims to date schmidt hammer lassen architects, as lead architects on the new permanent premises of the International Criminal Court in the Hague, has contributed to the largest private donation received by the Trust Fund for Victims to date. The donation supports the Trust Fund for Victims in helping and bringing hope to the many victims of international crime. When designing the new permanent premises for the International Criminal Court, the point of departure Global Compact principles on Human Rights/ was to communicate trust, hope and – most importantly – faith in justice and fairness. Consequently, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. the donation to the Trust Fund for Victims is a statement that justice matters. 25th Anniversary/schmidt hammer lassen architects day/2011 The Trust Fund for Victims was established in 2002 and is the first of its kind in the global movement to end impunity and promote justice. The Trust Fund for Victims fulfils two mandates for victims of We have supported the campaign since 2011 – and on the official Campaign Day the event has been crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court: implementing reparations ordered by marked at all SHL offices – including information about the campaign material available at the office, the Court and providing assistance to victims and their families by the use of voluntary contributions. on our website and also in the SHL Newsletter we addressed the event and CSR perspectives in architecture. The donation was made on the Day of International Criminal Justice, 17 July 2014. The €75,000 donation, initiated by Courtys, the contractor for the construction of the new permanent ICC premises, As business partner we contribute by spreading the positive news both inside and outside the was supported by several of the partners on the project. organization telling that the effort and support is making profound changes in the developing countries. The Danish campaign is financially supported by Danida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, End Poverty 2015 Campaign and the event has been developed as a unique collaboration between the UN, DANIDA and nearly 70 schmidt hammer lassen architects participates annually as business partner in the Danish NGO Danish development organizations and NGOs. campaign The World’s Best News which is part of the Danish contribution to of the UN initiative End Poverty 2015 Campaign (supporting The United Nations Millennium Development Goals). Please find more information on the Campaign website: http://verdensbedstenyheder.dk/ Human Resource management/ schmidt hammer lassen architects/Copenhagen office/Denmark Human Resource management/ Global Compact principles on Labour Standards/ Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. schmidt hammer lassen architects are exclusively dependent on staff members’ performance to continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic and sustainable architectural solutions for a diverse and international group of private and public clients. Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of the staff members is therefore important to the organizational development and a top priority in the strategic management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the studio’s ambitious visions. The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and conditions of any staff members through collective agreements and state imposed regulations concerning employee safeguarding. Additionally, schmidt hammer lassen architects engages in several specifically selected and designed activities to uphold these rights, extend them and continuously improve conditions for all staff members. In Denmark a collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the organisation’s staff members. Colleagues in London, Singapore, Shanghai and minor project offices are not covered by the Danish collective agreement, but the organization has made significant efforts to create conditions comparable to the rights and benefits included in the Danish collective agreement. National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites are followed with rigor. In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent to safeguarding labour rights and we also include additional activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment where work life and family life is well-balanced. Human Resource management/ Work environment and individual development / We communicate on general work conditions, benefits, rules and regulations in the SHL Staff Handbook that is handed out when we welcome a new colleague alongside a planned on-board program. Mandatory Employee Appraisal Session (EAS) are conducted annually for all staff members. These comprehensive sessions are focusing on motivation, work satisfaction, continuing professional development and career development. The EAS results in Individual Development Plan for each employee made in collaboration between the manager and the employee. Staff handbook The Danish Labour Law and Collective Agreement for architects in Denmark provides the following benefits to safeguard employee interests. 1. Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority + individually salary negotiations 2. Pension 3. Working hours regulation and overtime compensation 4. Favorable maternity and paternity leave 5. Holiday regulations (31 days per annum) 6. Continuing Professional Development (CPD) funding and shared learning activities 7. Employee representation on several deciding organisational boards (Health & Safety committee, Collaboration Committee and Continuing Education Committee) 8. Free union representative elections without management intervention Additionally, the organisation has chosen to offer extra health care insurances for almost all staff members. Health & safety/ The health and safety of all staff members is highly valued by the organisation. Hence, dedicated committees are in place and the strategic management participates actively and cooperatively. The To ensure assisted learning activities and ongoing professional and personal development for all meeting frequency in all three committees is quarterly. employees the Continuing Education Committee frames a plan for the majority of the assisted learning activities. The last two years the main focus of the plan has been sustainability, BIM, Project management The Health & Safety Committee prevents any form of counterproductive physical and non-physical and Internationalization. working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related accident. The Collaboration Committee ensures a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union At all locations schmidt hammer lassen architects encourage the employees to participate in a wide representative about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and range of social and professional development activities. The Give inspiration Calendar monthly retention. presents various activities to ensure a good social life, knowledge sharing and continuing professional The Continuing Education Committee organises and administers the organisation’s strategic development. engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. Human Resource managment/ Measurement/ To monitor organisational development on ‘hard’ aspects (physical working conditions) and ‘soft’ issues (non-physical working environment), the organisation administers a detailed employee survey once every three years. Next survey will be conducted in 2015. Non-discrimination/ At schmidt hammer lassen architects the employees are the most valuable resource. We believe that diversity creates an innovative work environment with world class architecture as a result. We focus on competencies and skills at any recruitment and internal promotion within the organization. Responsible behaviour/ At schmidt hammer lassen architect responsible behavior is integrated not only in our professional work but also in everyday work life. Standards are thoroughly described in the SHL Staff Handbook. We have formed a Green Studio Policy that describes standards in all offices. schmidt hammer lassen architects/shlday Stockholm/2014 A sustainable agenda/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has established a reputation for devising truly sustainable solutions across a broad spectrum of building typologies. Adopting a holistic approach, we believe that the basis of sustainable design is an understanding of every component that will deliver a healthy and enduring building, a building in which people will feel comfortable – both physically and socially. Above all, sustainability is about responding to the basic needs of a client, which can be an individual, a commercial enterprise, a school or an entire community. In the final analysis, sustainability is about delivering design that functions successfully as a catalyst for positive change. In other words, we are talking about successful place-making: when it works, sustainable design can engender a sense of civic pride, a sense of identity. This is an extraordinary challenge for architects – it is at the very heart of why we do what we do. Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway Certified knowledge/ Global Compact principles on Environment/ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. At schmidt hammer lassen architects the architectural staff counts in-house experts in the most important building certification systems, BREEAM International Assessors, LEED Accredited Professionals, DGNB International and DGNB Denmark Consultants and Cradle2Cradle trained professionals, offering certification processes and benchmarking for our clients projects. Certification systems and expertise enable us to evaluate the sustainability and “green performance” of a building and give a profound understanding of the interaction of the different sustainable parameters. The results and evaluations are used to seek for optimized green solutions during the design process and better building performances. Research and knowledge sharing is fundamental in our practice and in the CPD strategy of the studio. The CPD strategy thus defines some clear goals and activities, and aids to raise the common level and understanding of holistic sustainability throughout all of SHL, in a way that is extremely visible both internally and externally. The holistic approach to sustainability is implemented in numerous activities; lectures (Give Motivation and Give Inspiration), courses (Give Knowledge) and best practice examples (Give Experience). An important knowledge sharing platform is the schmidt hammer lassen architects GREENgroup where passionate employees exchange cutting edge knowledge of highly sustainable projects and green ideas. Regular meetings in this forum are open and accessible for all employees. The specialized staff members of our studio often provide public lectures and communicate on our experienced work with The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark innovative implementation. schmidt hammer lassen architects also involves in different initiatives to promote sustainability in our field. As an active player, we participated in an expert group for materials in the adaption process of the new Danish building certification system DGNB-DK to Danish standards, operational from June 2012. We participate in network initiatives with the focus on implementation of green solutions, like the Danish Cradle2Cradle network and the sustainability network Green Network Aarhus. schmidt hammer lassen architects is member of Danish Green Building Council and we are listed in the BREEAM GREEN book Quality Assurance/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has wide-ranging experience in high-level quality management to meet both client demands and regulatory requirements from the very beginning of a project until final handover. Working internationally the applied Quality Assurance standards need to be applicable to the multitude of projects that we work on all over the world as well as support the unique architectural quality. The general quality assurance policy is described in detail in the SHL Quality Assurance Manual and it has been has been prepared according to the following guidelines and standards: – Quality Control in Architectural Practices published by The Danish Association of Architectural Firms – The DS/ISO 9001 standard – The Danish Business Authority’s Executive Order no. 169 of 15 March 2004 The SHL Quality Assurance Handbook is a process tool that includes planning, implementation and quality control and the handbook is verified and updated on an ongoing basis to ensure that it reflects the experience accrued from assignments and to ensure that it constantly meets the objectives of the studio. University of Aberdeen New Library/Aberdeen/Scotland BIM/ Kolding Hospital/Kolding/Denmark Building Information Modelling/ Building new knowledge/ Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore the BIM management group attends various BIM Networks, and is often invited to make presentations at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build and share new knowledge – internally as well as externally – and recent activities are listed below. – RTC, Revit Technology Conference, Dublin, Irland 2014 – ICT Manager Education – lecture, 2014, DK – Taskforce for The digital models and legal responsibilities, Danske Ark/FRI DK, 2014 – BIM Europe Conference, Aarhus school of Architecture, 2014 – Censoring at VIA University Colleges, 2014, DK schmidt hammer lassen architects has been involved with starting and establishing “BIM Aarhus“ which is an active professional network for all participants in the construction industry and is the largest BIM network in Denmark. Conferences and Meetings are held on a regular basis to discuss relevant BIM issues. More information can be found at www.bimaarhus.dk schmidt hammer lassen architects is also actively setting up a similar network in the Copenhagen area. Likewise schmidt hammer lassen architects has been involved in establishing the innovation BIM Sustainability and BIM goes hand in hand. The use of Building Information Modelling / BIM is today network, BIM7AA, which research and develop new optimizing BIM working method, among others a standard of all projects at schmidt hammer lassen architects and we continuously research and find type code for structuring the BIM model. new ways to implement the BIM technology as part of our design process. BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic continuing education plan. Additional BIM Additional standard is also the use of environmental analysis and simulation tools to improve the has also its own internal taskforce and a separate internal budget as schmidt hammer lassen architects sustainability profile of the projects with specific focus on the design process. This is accomplished by acknowledges that being a first mover on this field requires constant research and education. Running using software tools such as Ecotect and Vasari. evaluations of the BIM projects is part of these knowledge sharing initiatives. When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of design, projects can be designed to benefit from local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar access and seasonal winds as well as the materials used to construct them. For the client, coming user and the community this means a more sustainable, enduring and energy efficient building. The atrium/ Social/Spatial/Inclusive/ Despite their various forms, these buildings share a number of significant characteristics, the main one being the atrium, which the architects consider a basic requirement for social interaction. A schmidt hammer lassen atrium is, therefore, seldom a monumental, singular void of the type often found in office buildings with a need to radiate status – but rather a cascade of floors that creates all sorts of spatial relationships. The atrium at City of Westminster College, for example, is a playful system of straight and curved balustrades, double-height storeys and a staircase pontifically placed at a jaunty angle. Here, users can find a sheltered spot from which to survey the scene or opt for a place at the heart of the action. From the Introduction in the Give more exhibition catalogue/David Keuning/Editor at Mark Magazine City of Westminster College/London/United Kingdom Business of schmidt hammer lassen architects ethics/ The independent international NGO Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. We hold a reputation as a responsible and conscientious business partner and dissociate from corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The studio has never been involved in corruption or bribery and the company has worked out policy guidelines which are carefully described in the schmidt hammer lassen architects staff handbook that are handed out to all employees on their first day at work. In this we state that: „Our business ethics are grounded on trustworthiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, employees at all levels must avoid letting financial and/or personal interests influence – or arouse suspicion of influencing – their work-related decisions or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees to act in accordance with applicable legislation.“ Global Compact principles on Anti-Corruption/ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We support the UN Convention against Corruption and the UK Bribery Act. schmidt hammer lassen architects/Aarhus office/Denmark Selected sustainable projects/by schmidt hammer lassen architects Office Building Buddinge/Copenhagen/Denmark/DGNB Silver. Green Valley/Shanghai/China/Office facilities with a high level of flexibility and low operating costs. Sir Duncan Rice Library/Aberdeen/Scotland/BREEAM excellent. Halifax Central Library/Halifax/Canada/Aiming for LEED Gold. Dokk1/Aarhus/Denmark/Flood protection of the historical city of Aarhus. Dwelllings in Lystrup/Aarhus/Denmark/Annual energy consumption to less than 30 kWh per square metre. Amazon Court Building/Prague/the Czech Republic/DGNB Gold. Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway/Refurbishment project employing Cradle to Cradle The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark/Energy-consumption at 25 percent less than Groendalsvej/Aarhus/Denmark/First zero-energy office building in Denmark. principles and targeting a BREEAM Outstanding certification. the existing energy legislation. The Nordic Built Charter/ schmidt hammer lassen architects has signed the Nordic Built Charter; committed to accelerate the development of sustainable building concepts initiated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry. The Nordic Built Charter is a public declaration of the values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic building sector. It describes a holistic approach to the built environment – taking energy, climate, economy and people into account. The intention is that relevant actors from across Nordic borders and across the entire value chain of the building sector will commit to its ten principles. In short, The Nordic Built Charter gives the building sector a platform for cooperation and provides a common set of fundamentally Nordic and sustainable values, promoting a balanced and integrated societal development based on environmental, economic and social sustainability. The Nordic Built programme combines key Nordic strengths, provides attractive and effective arenas for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. In 2012 the Nordic Built Challenge – a high profiled international architectural competition was organized by Nordic Innovation. The ambition were to create five lighthouse projects for the Nordic region, one in each country, demonstrating the solutions for sustainable refurbishment of the existing building stock, which the Nordic building industry is able to deliver. With the Urban Mountain refurbishment project schmidt hammer lassen architects and team won 1st prize for the innovative and sustainable new landmark for the city of Oslo. More information: www.nordicinnovation.org/nordicbuilt/the-challenge/ Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway Give change/ “An important part of this project is to allow the sustainable measures to be visible to the users and the city, hereby raising awareness of how the building works. For instance, when you look at the building from the outside the façade is characterized by a series of ‘green lungs‘.“ John Folbjerg Lassen, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway Urban Mountain/ Oslo/Norway/ When the refurbishment is complete the building will reach a total size of 79,000 square metres and will be a sustainable landmark for the city of Oslo. The building will be the tallest in Norway and the first high-rise building in Norway to enjoy natural ventilation. The Urban Mountain will be an outstanding Design team/schmidt hammer lassen architects/LOOP Architects/COWI Denmark/COWI Norway/Transsolar Energietechnik GmbH/Vugge til Vugge Denmark Client/Entra Eiendom AS Area/Existing: 50,875 m2, Extension: 28,375 m2 Competition/2013, 1st prize in open international competition example on green architecture an international lighthouse presenting innovative solutions on energy design, indoor climate, resource management and biodiversity. The strategy and concepts for the Based on principles from Cradle2Cradle thinking, as much as 90% of the demolished existing materials competition answers in Urban Mountain a broad range of environmental goals: are being recycled into new and upgraded building materials; 80% directly used in the new refurbished building. Optimizing the building to become an environmental landmark with significant reduction in carbon emission through a good passive design scheme and introducing innovative technologies in the As an example, all the façade elements from the existing building are being re-used in the new façade façade and new construction. design. Furthermore, the design concept operates with measurable Cradle2Cradle goals in areas of flexibility, biodiversity and recycling of water, heat and organic waste. Pursuing at least four Cradle2Cradle elements to be implemented and continuously developed for achieving highest level of positive impact to the users and surroundings. The ‘green lungs’ are an innovative part of the natural air intake in the building. With the use of regionally found plants, the ‘green lungs’ contribute to enhance biodiversity locally and to create a better and Boosting the lower levels with a dynamic flow of people and finance. Public access to a green mall, healthier indoor climate. The green plants clean, humidify and reduce the CO2-concentration of the restaurants and view terraces. Conference center at an intermediate level with large multifunctional incoming air for the comfort of the staff and visitors. auditoriums and spacious meeting facilities, catered by restaurant kitchens. Solar chimneys run from the bottom to the top of the building. A greenhouse on the rooftop captures Establishing a new infrastructure with centrally placed entrance points on more levels connecting to and reuses the excess heat of the building and the solar heat gain of the solar chimneys. The result is a street level, central station, metro and future bus terminal on top of railway tracks. recognizable building design – a sustainable landmark in the urban setting of the Oslo skyline. Expanding floor area to increase office spaces on all upper levels serviced by existing and new Another example of visible sustainable solutions in the building is the innovative ice storage, which can high-efficiency elevators for flexible distribution on each floor level. Combined with a super userbe viewed through a large window by people going to and from the metro station. The more than 1000 orientated and highly efficient and flexible working environment to accommodate tenants needs and cubic metres ice storage is used as a heat source in an adapted heat pump design and as a source of future expected changes in how we meet and work in offices. direct cooling during the summer. Introducing the quality of local nature in a vertical movement climbing from street level to the top of To integrate the office building into the local community at street level, public access is given through the building through a series of ‘green lungs’. An active element in cleaning the outdoor air pollution, an Urban Green Mall, selling healthy quality food and locally produced products. Here, people will meet humidifying and enhancing air quality inside the building taken in by natural ventilation. and interact in the large atria, on terraces, in cafés and restaurants. Nordic Built Principles adapted in the Urban Mountain project Charter/ O1/Is made for people and promotes quality of life/ UM supports the desire to a healthy life and attitude. Will have an outstanding indoor climate throughout the year, and ensure good daylight in all of the building. Through the choice of materials with no toxic off gassing we will ensure a safe, healthy and effectful working environment. 02/Pushes the limits of sustainable performance, as a result of our innovative mindset and high level of knowledge/ UM will be a precedence example of innovative building solutions and used as reference project in at least two Ph.D. studies on sustainability 03/Merges urban living with the qualities of nature/ 07/Utilises local ressources and is adapted to local conditions/ UM is an urban ecosystem; cleaning the city air pollution, absorbing CO2, generating O2. Introducing UM the building is heavily inspired by the local sounding environment. UM ensures at present reuse of outdoor and indoor ‘landscapes’ and green elements in a local context enhance the biodiversity and 90 % of demolished materials from existing structure to the building industry. 80 % of all demolished well-being for both human and nature. materials are reused in UM’s new structure or interior fitting. Optimal goal is zero waste! 04/Achieves zero emissions over its lifecycle/ 08/Is produced and maintained through partnerships founded on transparent collaboration across UM reduces the net energy consumption by 59 % compared to existing building (pr. m2). By mixing and borders and disciplines/ controlling the different energy sources, storages and equipment our flexible solution will ensure the UM sets new standards in cross-disciplinary interaction between highly specialized competences, lowest possible CO2-emission according to changing needs (seasonal and behavior). Furthermore the combined with an ambitious building owner/ operator and the Nordic Innovation platform. The carbon footprints of materials are minimized. integration of detailed design and technical, sustainable solutions through IDP/IED ensures effective collaboration throughout the whole value chain. 05/Is functional, smart and aesthetically appealing, building on the best of the Nordic design tradition/ UM even though we use the most advanced technology and building design, it will appear simple 09/Employs in concepts that are scalable and used globally/ and user-friendly. Flexible and timeless solutions in choice of materials and methods. High quality UM A whole range of the solutions can be used directly in other building projects around the world. assurance by prefabrication in a controlled building environment. Urban Mountain is already in this early stage an attraction for global and locally founded companies as a test ground for new technology and ways of working (take-back systems, leasing and service packs). 06/Is robust, durable, flexible and timeless – built to last/ The size and ambition level of UM is groundbreaking for new business development at a global scale. UM in every aspect thought to be ‘designed for disassembly’ and easy access to building components for replacement to ensure continuous improvement in performance. This building is not static, but 10/Profits people, business and the environment/ celebrates upgrading to highest quality standards whenever feasible, thus maintaining the value over UM is developed on a new mindset of a ‘value-triangle’ in which all future business models must find time. balance between social equity (people), economy (business) and ecology (environment). Give transformation/ The Green Valley is just one of four major projects currently being designed by schmidt hammer lassen architects in the centre of Shanghai. All the projects relate to the redevelopment of the former industrial areas along the riverfront, and build on the studio’s celebrated track record in regenerating a number of prominent waterfront sites in major cities throughout Scandinavia. In Shanghai, the studio is designing the new Xuhui Binjiang Performance Arts Centre, is working on a redevelopment of a former coal storage building which will become a new art gallery and museum for an international art dealer, and has recently designed pavilions for the Shanghai West Bund Biennial for Architecture and Contemporary Art, alongside architects Atelier Deshaus, Atelier BowWow and Pritzker prize winner Wang Shu. Green Valley/Shanghai/China Green Valley/ Shanghai/China/ Green Valley is just one of several major projects along Shanghai‘s historical Huangpu River waterfront being designed by schmidt hammer lassen architects. All the projects relate to the redevelopment of the former industrial areas along the riverfront, and build on the studio’s track record in regenerating a number of prominent waterfront sites in major cities throughout Scandinavia. Besides Green Valley, our studio is involved in the Shanghai Dream Center development, a former cement factory being converted into Shanghai‘s new waterfront cultural and creative hub. We are also designing the Xuhui Binjiang Performing Arts Center, and work on a redevelopment of a former coal storage building which will become a new art gallery and museum. Recently we have also designed pavilions for the Shanghai West Bund Biennial for Architecture and Lead design architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Local architect/ECADI (East China Architecture and Design Institute) Client/Shanghai Contemporary Art, alongside architects Atelier Deshaus, Atelier BowWow and Pritzker prize winner EXPO Construction Development Co. Ltd. Area/50,000 m² Competition/2012, 1st prize in invited international competition Status/Construction Wang Shu. period 2013 – 2015 ”The project is designed so that, despite the monumental scale of the site, it relates to the human scale in the public spaces, giving a diverse, vibrant and inclusive community.” Chris Hardie, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects Give sustainability/ “The project Groendalsvej in Aarhus with its design approach is exemplary for the future tasks of the building sector.” Eike Musall, M.Sc.arch. Bergische Universität Wuppertal Groendalsvej/Aarhus/Denmark Groendalsvej/Aarhus/ Denmark/ The environmental ambitions of the municipality of Aarhus have been the key drivers for the project which is a zero-energy office building, the first of its kind in Denmark. The new building complex for 240 staff and their clients is an extension to the existing administration office of the municipality dating from 1965. The complex appears as a fully integrated classic modern composition. It has been crucial to keep the design on a human scale to offer the best possible physical conditions to the employees and visitors. The complex is situated on a hillside in the southern part of Aarhus and is highly visible from the passing intercity road. The 6,286-square-metre building, designed by schmidt hammer lassen architects, has 1,100 square metres of solar cells for production of electricity and 420 square metres of solar thermal panels for absorption cooling and water heating. Furthermore there is rainwater harvesting for reuse in lavatories and for garden watering. The holistic approach to sustainability in the design of this building makes it outstanding, not only in Denmark but worldwide. It will now function as administrative office for the Municipality of Aarhus. From a sustainable point of view one of the design solutions that makes this building stand out is the very thin façades. By using a highly insulated material with a thickness of only 5 centimetres, the same effect as using 40 centimetres of normal Rockwool is ensured. As a result, square metres for office space are freed within the same building frame and daylight can be used optimally to keep the use of electric light Architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/Municipality of Aarhus Area/6,000 m² Competition/2009, 1st prize in design & Build competition at a minimum. Status/Construction period 2010 2012 Engineer/Grontmij Contractor/E. Pihl & Son Landscape architect/GHB Landscape Architects Malmö Live/Malmö/ Sweden “The main idea of Malmø Live has been to create ‘a city in the city’. An example is the part of the building that faces the park and the canal that is shaped more openly and organic, and gives the people from the city the possibility to stroll through the building if they are going to a concert, a conference, to the café or just want to make a shortcut. We wanted the place to be vibrant, accessible, and inviting – no doubt this approach will have great impact on the future life to be unfolded around and inside the buildings.” Kristian Ahlmark, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects A city in the city In 2015 the new 54,000 square metres large concert, congress and hotel complex situated on Universitetsholmen in Malmö will be completed. The building consists of a composition of cubic volumes that are mutually twisted and given different sizes to meet the directions and building heights of the surrounding city. The façades are designed with a homogeneous expression to make the composition appear as one architectonic sculpture. The ground floor is open to the public. The main entrance is found at the northern part of the building, with a classic loggia-motif facing the plaza in front. From the south you enter the building directly from the promenade that runs along the canal. The different functions in the building are organised like separate elements – like a small town. Here, the lobby becomes the street that runs through the whole ground floor plan and ties everything together. Like the medieval cities, with curved and narrow Architect/schmidt hammer lassen architects Client/Skanska Sverige AB Area/54,000 m2 concert, congress and hotel Competition/2010, streets organised around plazas and squares, the lobby is designed to form small gathering places and international property development competition Status/Won, construction 2010 2015 Landscape architect/SLA Contractor/Skanska Sverige AB recesses where it is possible to stop, sit and enjoy the view to the canal and the park. Other collaborators/Akustikon The new cultural centre becomes an open, expressive and dynamic building that is manifold in both its activities and its architecture. The point of departure for the building design is the modern Scandinavian architectural tradition with the clear functional organisation and the accessible and open ground floor lay-out. The building becomes the focal point and a landmark for Malmö – a place where the spirit of the city, the diversity and the intimacy is given an architectonic expression. Sustainability profile Malmö Live is a sustainable, green project. The intention is to develop the area with as little environmental impact as possible, for example by reducing energy consumption and using local energy sources such as geothermal heating, solar energy and wind power. Close proximity to City Tunnel and Central Station makes taking public transport easy. Green roofs absorb water, slow up runoff and promote biodiversity. Solar cells meet some of the building’s energy requirements. Food waste is collected and turned into biogas, and there are nesting boxes for kestrels on the roofs to help this bird of prey to live in a city environment. Malmö Live will be certified according to the international Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standard aiming for the highest level platinum in the assessment, which looks at factors like materials, indoor environment, design, and water use. The building also meets the category A standard of the Miljöbyggprogram Syd Green Construction Programme. Find more information on www.shl.dk and on http://www.malmolive.se/ Give care/ “On arrival, all patients, relatives and employees must feel welcome and accommodated. People must be received in a proper manner, which leaves them in no doubt about where to go. We created a new platform for arrival which angles towards the hospital in one smooth movement and leads below the building, where the green garden spaces will act as way-finding elements.” Kim Holst Jensen, partner at schmidt hammer lassen architects New Hospital Hvidovre/Hvidovre/Denmark New Hospital Hvidovre/ Hvidovre/Denmark/ Consortium/Consultants: schmidt hammer lassen architects, aarhus arkitekterne, Sub-consultants: Søren Jensen Rådgivende Ingeniørfirma, Royal Haskoning, Kragh & Berglund Landscapearchitecture and Urban Design Client/The Capital Region of Denmark Area/30,560 m2 Competition/2013, 1st prize in restricted competition New Hospital Hvidovre is a 30,000-square-metre extension of Hvidovre Hospital, situated west of On top of the concrete base, the bed sections are placed as a sculptural structure, meandering around the existing hospital complex. The four-storey hospital extension comprises an emergency ward, a the new green garden spaces. The bed wards are individually sized according to the needs of the pediatrics ward and obstetrics and cardiology departments. respective ward which they serve, while at the same time constituting a single sculptural composition. The structure allows for quick access between the respective wards. In the design, special attention has been paid to creating an architectural dialogue between the existing hospital and the new extension. Thus, the hospital extension adjusts to the existing complex A unique feature is the new platform for arrival which angles towards the hospital in one smooth by adopting and continuing the building principles of the existing hospital. The architectural idea is movement and leads below the building, where green garden spaces will act as way-finding elements, to develop the concrete base into a flexible and respectful new interpretation while maintaining the bringing daylight to the parking level. The green garden spaces serve as reception areas for the new orthogonal geometry. main entrance and for the entrance to the emergency ward. Placing the main entrance level with the parking area is an innovative consequence of the majority of visitors arriving at the hospital by car. Thus The overall impression becomes a flexible, efficient, and expressive building complex, which is also the visitor is protected from the Danish weather and has easy and direct access as well as a good robust in relation to future changes. overview. New Hospital Hvidovre/Hvidovre/Denmark International Criminal Court/The Hauge/The Netherlands Imprint/ All rights in this COP is reserved by schmidt hammer lassen architects Contact/ Aaboulevarden 37 PO box 5117 8000 Aarhus C Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/ schmidt hammer lassen architects Photos/ Adam Mørk Anders Back Daniel Greniman Jeppe Carlsen Ricky Molloy schmidt hammer lassen architects Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer/trs@shl.dk We support the UN Global Compact initiative/ schmidt hammer lassen architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. This COP reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. Office building Buddinge/Buddinge/Denmark
