Strengthening Humanitarian Entrepreneurship in 2013 From our CEO Nelson Mandela once said, “What counts in life is not the mere In 2013 we further supported our mission to help decrease We continued to identify alternative ways to finance In 2013 we also reinforced our already robust research fact that we have lived it. It is what difference we have made waterborne illnesses with the introduction of two new public health programs in the face of limited public aid. and development profile by opening a new water lab. to the lives of others that will determine the significance of LifeStraw ® water filters: the high-volume LifeStraw ® Our LifeStraw ® Carbon for Water program in Kenya’s We added procedures and processes internally as well, the life we lead.” Community for schools and institutional settings and Western Province is providing 4.5 million residents raising the bar even higher, to strengthen our profile as LifeStraw ® Go, a refillable water bottle. with sustainable access to safe water through a unique a transparent business that acts with integrity. His words. Our aspiration. carbon financing program. Our up-and-coming ZeroFly ® product line was tested Looking forward, we have a solid product portfolio At the essence of our company, our DNA if you will, is our and retested extensively in the field with excellent We developed a cause marketing program, “Follow the which will be enhanced by new products in the pipeline, mission to make a difference by positively impacting the efficacy results. ZeroFly® Livestock, an insecticide-incorpoLiters,” to harness the power an unwavering commitment to industry leadership, lives of the disadvantaged people we serve. As such, we rated screen that protects livestock from debilitating flies of consumers to support public transparency and integrity, and an internal structure operate according to a humanitarian entrepreneurship and ZeroFly ® Storage Bag, which protects post-harvest health initiatives. Through this to help us thrive in the future. As the post-2015 global business model where doing good is good business. commodities from pest infestations, will both be launched program, for every LifeStraw ® development agenda is formalized, Vestergaard will broadly, fulfilling previously unmet food security needs in purchased by a consumer, one be ready to support it while also continuing along our From Innovation to Impact developing countries. child in Africa receives clean path — our aspiration — to continue to make a difference water for an entire school year. for the most vulnerable people on our planet. In 2013, Vestergaard reached many exceptional mileLeadership Initiatives stones. We could proudly claim that more than one Over the next few pages, enjoy updates on our 2013 Internal Enhancements billion people have benefited from our best-selling As part of our ongoing commitment to lead and activities including a status report on initiatives related PermaNet ® bed nets. innovate, we continued to tackle tough global health On the corporate front, 2013 was a transformative year to the United Nations Global Compact, which we have challenges in ways that extended beyond the products for Vestergaard. At the start of the year, we restructured been a member of since 2006. From 1996-2013, we supplied more than 23 million we sell. We launched IR Mapper, an online tool which into two highly focused business units. A water unit LifeStraw ® Guinea Worm filters to The Carter Center’s tracks insecticide resistance. It has been extremely was formed as a home for all of our LifeStraw ® products Guinea Worm Eradication Program. This contributed valuable in helping malaria control programs determine and a vector unit created for PermaNet ® technologies to the near-eradication of a disease which afflicted 3.5 which malaria prevention tools are most effective for and ZeroFly ® food security products. million people in 1986 but only had 148 cases last year. specific areas. 2 3 Leading the fight against insecticide resistance + PermaNet®. Reducing malaria and vector-borne diseases. Malaria kills a child every 60 seconds and claims more than • Rigorous development process drives quality and 660,000 annual deaths. Long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) efficacy can reduce deaths from malaria in children by one-fifth • Designed to meet the evolving challenges faced by and malaria episodes by one-half. PermaNet® is the leading vector control programs LLIN, and more than one billion people have benefited from the best-selling PermaNet® 2.0 net and PermaNet® 3.0, the Providing support to the industry first insecticide-synergist combination net to tackle metabolic resistance to the insecticides used in bed nets. Vestergaard provided sponsorship and support to launch the Pan-African Mosquito Control Association, which Advantages promotes harmonized strategies for mosquito control and research. • Most tested LLIN brand Capitalizing on the power of partnerships, Vestergaard • Superior technology = slow release of the insecticide Vestergaard launched IR Mapper, an online tool that maps insecticide resistance, created in donated US$50,000 to Malaria No More to support malaria collaboration with the Kenya Medical Research Institute and Esri, a leading GIS mapping • Lasts at least 3 years without the need to re-treat control efforts. This included a much-needed supply software manufacturer. IR Mapper can be used to guide deployment of the most effective insecticidal of 10,000 nets to an orphanage, school and clinics in • Meets the highest standards for efficacy including WHO tools for each area. Burkina Faso. recommendation 4 5 Harnessing the power of consumers to make an impact Each consumer purchase of a LifeStraw® filter provides one school child in Africa with clean water for an entire school year. Consumers can track the impact of their purchases at FollowtheLiters.com. With this ongoing commitment, consumer purchases continually support Vestergaard’s core business of producing and deploying products that improve the lives of vulnerable people. Reducing waterborne illness From 1997-2013, Vestergaard supplied Vestergaard worked with humanimore than 23 million LifeStraw® Guinea tarian partners responding to Worm filters to The Carter Center. the devastation caused by Super Guinea worm disease decreased from Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines Lifestraw®. Providing access to safe drinking water. 3.5 million cases in 1986 to near eradication with only 148 cases in 2013. by donating LifeStraw® filters to 16,000 displaced families. Nearly 780 million people don’t have access to clean water. Drinking contaminated water causes serious diseases such as cholera, typhoid and diarrhea in the developing world. LifeStraw® removes pathogens that LifeStraw® LifeStraw® cause waterborne diseases. All LifeStraw® filters are made for individual use Community of durable plastic and don’t require electrical power. for institutional settings LifeStraw® has been field tested in harsh environments LifeStraw® Carbon for Water, launched in 2011 and funded $$$ and has been vigorously tested in the laboratory where with carbon financing, continues to provide safe water to four it has exceeded US EPA requirements for household million people in Kenya’s Western Province with LifeStraw® water treatments. LifeStraw ® Family and Community Family filters. meet World Health Organization standards for the “Highly Protective” category of safe drinking water. LifeStraw® LifeStraw® Go Family refillable bottle used in homes 6 7 For more than 15 years, Vestergaard has been developing of efficacy, but in a smaller target that is much more cost various forms and sizes of insecticide-treated targets and effective to ship and deliver. Field results demonstrating the traps that catch and/or kill tsetse flies, vectors of sleeping impact of the tiny targets have been very promising and the sickness. This deadly disease affects both humans and Gates Foundation has approved funding for a second phase animals, and is particularly severe in parts of sub-Saharan of the program. The team will work integrally with the WHO Africa with 60% of cases of human disease found in DRC. Elimination Program. Cost-effective implementation of tsetse fly targets and traps has presented a major limitation to control programs due to their large size. In 2013, Vestergaard was approached to partner with the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine and International Relief and Development groups to overcome this problem. The team, funded by the Gates Foundation, developed tiny targets that retain a high level Photos courtesy of J. Esterhuizen Supporting food security research In the Democratic Republic of Congo, where instances of ZeroFly® Livestock was donated to several large dairy ZeroFly®. Improving food security. human and animal sleeping sickness are extremely high, Vestergaard is supporting a pilot program under the Clincooperatives in Indonesia and Kenya, which served as demonstration farms. The milk yield of the animals ton Initiative to increase livestock productivity by using increased dramatically by approximately 1 liter/cow/day ZeroFly® Livestock screen. Vestergaard has funded a pilot in both countries. evaluating the product impact on three key pillars impacting ZeroFly ® products support smallholder farmers who ZeroFly ® Livestock is the first insecticide-incorporated Food Security & Health: reduction in tsetse flies that vector Vestergaard has provided are producing most of the food for the two billion screen that keeps livestock healthy and productive by both human and animal disease; reduction in incidence of funding to support an people in developing countries. reducing the impact of flies. disease including improved animal health and reduction in MSc Student (Graduate veterinary costs; and increased productivity. Early trends Research Assistant) at How it Works in the pilot indicate a significant and positive impact of Oklahoma State University, ZeroFly® Livestock screen on all parameters. who will examine new technologies to improve In many areas, maintaining healthy livestock is a In Costa Rica, large outbreaks of flies are causing serious post-harvest storage in major challenge. Flies, in particular, are highly debilinegative economic and welfare issues for the cattle farming developing countries. tating. Biting flies can irritate farm animals enough industry. Vestergaard is working closely with the Laboratory to significantly decrease their productivity and cause of Plant Protection within the Department of Investigation weight loss. More dangerous species, such as tsetse and Innovation in Costa Rica and the United States flies, can infect livestock with deadly disease. Department of Agriculture to support scientists investigating practical solutions to control biting flies. 8 9 Fortifying our Responsible Supply Chain safe workplace practices and ensure environmentally sound operations. Following encouragement from Vestergaard, in 2013, our main supplier assigned two full time responsible supply chain • F ourteen fire safety inspections at high risk contractor (RSC) auditors who manage auditing and follow-up corrective sites were implemented in addition to the local authoractions throughout the network of sub-contractors. ities’ inspections. Discussion sessions were conducted with workshop managers to Additionally, a team of nine supervisors from Vestergaard, enhance their understanding of fire safety who had focused only on quality and planning monitoring, measures. and who have daily contact with sub-contractors, were trained in RSC fundamental and basic auditing skills. They Training now can discuss RSC issues (e.g., corrective action plans, listening to suppliers’ initiatives and suggestions, etc.) • A  major training workshop for RSC associates, site owners on a more frequent basis with sub-contractors and and managers of Vestergaard’s supplier companies was Vestergaard’s main supplier’s management board. conducted. Posters and informational material were distributed to keep the awareness level high. Audits • O  ther training topics focused on consequences of using • V estergaard has adopted the Fair Labor Association’s child labor; transparency and business integrity best Sustainable Compliance Initiative methodology which practices; and protective person equipment advances workers’ rights by encouraging progressive (PPE) safety for various factory manufacand sustained improvements in employment practices turing functions (e.g., heat-settings, how and working conditions. From September to December, to work with insecticides, etc.). RSC audits following this methodology were conducted United Nations Global Compact Update. with about 80 percent of our main supplier’s sub-contrators. •  Initial training for Vestergaard’s main supplier’s supervisors on how to implement an environmental health and safety (EHS) audit at sub-contractor sites was • M onthly safety behavior visits have been introduced initiated. Plans are underway to train Vestergaard has been a member of the United Nations audits to ensure that the company is accountable and where Vestergaard’s Supply Chain Chief Officer walks sub-contractors directly in 2014. Global Compact since 2006. We maintain a steadfast transparent and that it acts with the highest level of through important manufacturing sites together with commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen by responsibility. Here are highlights of this activity. a management team member of the partner. Commitadhering to the Compact’s principles and by augmenting ment is gained from managers and employees to follow them with our own Business Conduct Principles. Our Strengthening Anti-Corruption Practices Internal Compliance Council is in charge of ensuring Over the past years, Vestergaard has continually improved that the standards for ethical behavior set forth in the anti-bribery and corruption measures, and taken the lead Principles are adhered to. This Council reports to to enhance business ethics within the bed net industry. Vestergaard’s Board of Directors. In 2013 we augmented our internal controls even further, with a focus on the control of third parties such as agents In 2013, Vestergaard devoted considerable resources partnering with Vestergaard, as well as on strengthening to raise the bar on the company’s compliance and reporting mechanisms through an external, confidential corporate responsibility profile. We incorporated whistle blower hotline. comprehensive new procedures, measurements and 10­­­­­ 11 Improving Occupational Safety and Productivity every month. The new guards have reduced the number Expanding Environmentally Responsible Practices • V  estergaard sources dyestuffs and auxiliaries only from of injured cases to nearly zero and have increased suppliers who support the Joint Roadmap to Zero Dis• I n February, a new water lab with modern and world • V  estergaard has advocated for its supplier network to worker satisfaction and productivity. charge of Hazardous Chemicals by adapting to less waste class facilities was opened in Hanoi, Vietnam. It meets use bio-fuels in place of fossil fuels used for high energy water and less energy consuming dyeing technologies. requirements on work efficiency as well as strict requireconsumption processes such as heat-setting, impregna• V  estergaard funded the replacement of ineffective and At the same time we are working on solutions to reduce ments of international standards. tion and dyeing. In 2013, almost all Vestergaard suppliers uncomfortable respirator protector masks used by waste water significantly during the dyeing process. switched to bio-fuel (e.g., sawdust pellets, wood and workers on the bed net impregnation line. The company • A more robust EHS monitoring scheme was set up at bamboo pulp, cashew nutshells, etc.). The long-term also set up chemical safety training, • A  long with our main supplier, we are implementing an Vestergaard’s water and chemicals labs. goal is to convert to 100% usage of bio-fuel for including preparing training internal Environment Aspect and Impact Assessment to operations which are suitable to operate on such fuel. materials, training the bring a systematic and sustained approach to environ• I n 2013, we have been implementing and maintaining trainers and running mental protection at manufacturing facilities. We are 5S and Green programs at our water lab to standardize various chemical safety also working with the Hanoi School of Public Health, and organize a more professional and environmentally training workshops. Two Environmental and Occupational Health to plan training responsible workplace. This has resulted in increased months after the training, courses, including courses which will be conducted at efficiency, enhanced employee satisfaction and usage of PPE equipment factories in 2014. reduced negative environmental impact. increased from zero percent usage for gloves and • A  team comprised of representatives from Vestergaard • V estergaard’s cut-and-sew suppliers have installed masks to 80-100% usage. This resulted in increased and our main supplier is working on solutions to minithousands of sewing machine safe guards to eliminate efficiency, enhanced employee safety and reduced mize water consumption and energy usage at the heatfinger injuries which affected about 10% of workers negative environmental impact. set, which is one process in PermaNet ® production that Dry Bamboo Pulp ensures the durability and stability of the net but which uses significant water and energy consumption. • V  estergaard has been exploring environmentally friendly alternatives to the plastic bags currently used for PermaNet ® packaging. These include the viability of using a bio-degradable paper bag, developing a plastic bag which would meet standards to be certified as bio-degradable, and trying to develop a way to vacuum pack the nets to optimize the quantity of nets per container. Sawdust Pellets Green practices applied in tandem with the 5S system have resulted in significant savings: • 40% of gloves by optimization of testing procedures • 5 0% of tissue paper and 70% of roll paper by using reusable wipes whenever applicable • More than 30% of daily city tap water consumption through optimization of testing processes • 10% of daily power consumption through optimization of the number of light bulbs in use and usage times of batch equipment such as autoclaves, washing machine and glassware drying chambers 12­­­­­ 13 Philanthropy Vestergaard regularly offers financial and in-kind support • S ponsored a secondary school scholarship program for to worthy organizations and events to help alleviate students in Kakamega, Kenya. global health problems. Here are examples of corporate giving in 2013. • L aunched the LifeStraw ® cause platform which raised enough money to donate more than 650 LifeStraw ® • D  onated LifeStraw ® Family filters to 16,000 families displaced by Super Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. Community water filters to schools in Africa’s Western Province during the second half of 2013. Offices • D  onated US$50,000 to support Malaria No More’s efforts • D onated 5,000 PermaNet® 2.0 nets to a school, orphanage Switzerland (HQ) Kenya to end malaria deaths. and clinics around Burkina Faso. Vestergaard Frandsen Vestergaard Frandsen (EA) Limited Chemin de Messidor 5 7, ABC Towers, 5th Floor • D  onated ZeroFly ® Storage Bags to support the World • D onated LifeStraw ® Guinea Worm filters to The Carter CH 1006 Lausanne, Waiyaki Way Switzerland P.O. Box 66889 00800 Food Programme’s initiative in Burkina Faso and Center for use in Ethiopia and South Sudan. Tel: +41 (0) 21 310 7333 Nairobi Uganda aimed at finding solutions to the food loss Tel: +254 20 4444758/9 Fax: +41 (0) 21 310 7330 problem in Africa. • D onated ZeroFly ® Livestock screen to several large dairy Fax: +254 20 4444526 cooperatives in Indonesia and Kenya. • D  onated LifeStraw ® Community filters and PermaNet® bed nets to poor schools in Dien Bien • D istributed LifeStraw ® Family filters for programs in Brazil USA Vestergaard Frandsen South America Vestergaard Frandsen Inc. in Vietnam. Tanzania, Uganda, Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Zambia to Sao Paulo, SP 1020 19th Street NW deliver safe drinking water to people living with HIV. Brazil Washington, DC 20036 • P  rovided support to launch the Pan African Mosquito Tel: +55 11 3205 0097 Tel: +1 571 527 2180 Control Association, including a US$1,000 sponsorship. • D onated 3,000 PermaNet ® 3.0 nets for a durability study Fax: +1 703 997 3235 in Benin run by Medical Care Development, Int’l., Center • D  onated 5,500 meters of ZeroFly ® Livestock screen for for Research and Education in Communication, and the a study investigating control of outdoor biting malaria Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. India Vietnam Vestergaard Frandsen (India) Pvt. Ltd Vestergaard Frandsen Vietnam vectors in the Solomon Islands run by Eck Institute for 309, Rectangle One, 9/253 Minh Khai Street Global Health, University of Notre Dame, James Cook • H elped prepare and provided partial funding for Hai Ba Trung District D-4, Saket (Behind Sheraton Hotel) University, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention the Water Institute’s Household Water Treatment New Delhi – 110017 Post code: 114034 and Intellectual Ventures Laboratory. & Safe Storage Workshop held in April in Ethiopia. Tel: 011-40553666 Hanoi Vietnam Tel: +84 4 36369279 • D  onated 25 LifeStraw ® filters to an IMA program in • P rovided funding to support an MSc Student (Graduate Fax: +84 4 36367661 Democratic Republic of the Congo. Research Assistant) at Oklahoma State University, who will examine new technologies to improve post-harvest • D  onated 5,000 PermaNet ® 2.0 nets for a durability study storage in developing countries. in Tanzania run by Ifakara Health Institute, National Institute for Medical Research in Tanzania, London School • D onated LifeStraw ® Community filters to World Vision of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and Norwegian University for use in Zambia and Chad. of Life Sciences. • D  onated LifeStraw ® water filters and PermaNet ® bed nets for distribution as part of the Kingsley Holgate Rift Valley Expedition. 14­­­­­ 15 vestergaard.com
