1. Human rights UNGC Principles The two first principles of the United Nations Global Compact concern Human Rights. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. CBG Corporate statement policy CBG respects, fully supports and strives to take into account in our daily activities and operations all articles in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, promoting respect for these rights and freedoms and enhancing their universal and effective recognition and observance. CBG strives to be recognised as an ethical and fair enterprise with sustainability awareness built into all of its activities. We further undertake not to be party to any action that could violate such rights, either directly or indirectly. A more extensive review of the requirements the company sets for the supply chain is currently underway, both in terms of the clarity and scope of such requirements. At CBG, our objective is to be as clear as possible in our communication with suppliers and other parties when it comes to our position on internationally recognised human rights. Discussions are currently ongoing as to how this communication can be made clearer still, what requirements should be set for suppliers and other parties, as well as the way in which the communication should take place in order to reach out as effectively as possible. 2. Labour standards UNGC Principles The next four principles of the United Nations Global Compact concern the Labour area. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CBG Corporate statement policy CBG values its employees as a key factor of its success and, being a global company, it complies with all national collective agreements applicable in each country where it operates. CBG supports the ethos of equality of all people. CBG’s labour policies and practices recognise that all workers are free to form and join a trade union of their choice; that there must be no use of or benefit from forced labour; that there must be no use of or benefit from child labour; that we must work for non-discrimination and for equal opportunities for all, irrespective of e.g. gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, social or ethnic origin, political opinion, trade union membership or otherwise, provided this is based on democratic principles and mutual tolerance. We commit ourselves to offer our employees clear and fair employment terms and provide resources to enable their development. CBG provides, and strives to maintain, a clean, healthy and safe work environment. The company promotes gender equality and diversity in the workplace, which is also considered as an important part of the good work environment that the company strives to provide. As part of the company’s work on gender equality, a gender equality plan has been drawn up in which the company reports on current statistics, objectives and action plans relating to working conditions, parental leave, recruitment and competence development, salary issues and cases of harassment. The following paragraphs report statistics, objectives and action plans for areas that are represented in the gender equality plan, as well as describing our planned actions and our objectives. Working conditions – Sweden • 57 percent of employees in Sweden are women and 43 percent are men. • All employees hold full-time and permanent posts. • Of the total working hours, absence due to illness in the company over the past year amounted to 3.3 percent. • Absence due to illness among women corresponded 4.1 percent of total working hours for women. Absence due to illness among men corresponded to 2.2 percent of total working hours for men. • The existing working conditions for the different posts are generally suitable for all employees regardless of gender. Objectives The company views the current level of absence due to illness as satisfactory, but it strives toward a reduction in absence due to illness among female employees to a level that is closer to that of the company's male employees. Action In the event of signs of prolonged and recurring illness the company's personnel manager contacts the employee for a meeting, and then decides whether there is a need for an assessment interview with the occupational health care service. These are conducted in the event of long-term absence due to illness or repeated short-term absence. Parental leave – Sweden Over the past year, the proportion of the total number of hours of absence to care for children (VAB) and parental leave for men amounted to 35 percent. The corresponding proportion for women was 65 per cent. The proportion of the total number of employees amounted to 43 percent for men, which can be interpreted as male employees taking relatively less time off to care for children and parental leave than female employees. Objectives CBG intends to even out the gender differences in the use of parental leave among the company's employees in Sweden to the greatest possible extent. Action CBG shall work to even out this figure by encouraging and enabling employees on parental leave to maintain contact with the workplace, for example by communicating work-related information and inviting them to participate in meetings. In addition, the company's joint activities shall as far as possible be planned so that they suit the working hours of the employees who are on part-time parental leave in some form. Salary issues – Sweden There are no differences in salary level between female and male employees in posts that are to be considered as equivalent. Objectives There shall be no unjustified differences in salary level between women and men in comparable posts. Salaries shall be based on sound reason and shall be justifiable on grounds unrelated to gender. Action The company works continuously with the latest salary statistics during salary surveys. Harassment Harassment is rare at the company. Among both managers and employees, few are aware that there is an action plan for dealing with harassment. Objectives All employees within the company shall be aware of the company’s policy against harassment and victimisation and know how to act in accordance with this policy if someone feels harassed. No form of harassment is permitted to occur within the company. The work climate is characterised by mutually good treatment and mutual respect. Action Inform about the policy against harassment and victimisation and make it available to the employees. Inform about the company's values in the area during performance reviews and other employee meetings. The immediate manager shall immediately intervene and is obliged to report to the departmental manager and/or personnel manager if any employee reports that she or he has been subjected to harassment or victimisation, in accordance with the policy against harassment and victimisation. 3. Environment UNGC Principles The following three principles of the United Nations Global Compact concern the Environment. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CBG Corporate statement policy CBG shall contribute to the development towards an environmentally sound society and shall continuously strive to reduce negative environmental impact, both as a company and through our services to our customers. CBG shall comply with all relevant laws and regulations. We shall accomplish this through: The analysis of environmental aspects and the proactive prevention of negative impact Continuously increasing our knowledge of environmental aspects Ensuring that our working procedures, methods and tools have low environmental impact To the greatest possible extent, choosing environmentally friendly alternatives for purchases and travel. Business trips – to travel or not to travel The majority of CBG’s business is conducted on a global scale, with offices in several parts of the world. The operation requires constant interaction between the offices and the need to meet and coordinate is great. For some employees, this results in frequent trips as a more or less constantly recurring element in their work. Our global operation also requires regular contact with customers within different countries and around the world. CBG is constantly seeking new ways to reduce its CO2 emissions, as well as to increase environmental awareness among employees. In order not to burden the environment while still maintaining good collaboration between employees around the world, CBG installed the first videoconferencing system (VC) available on the market several years ago. Today, the company has a large number of VC systems in use in all offices, which greatly facilitates interaction within the organisation. Certain key personnel in the company with a particular need for regular meetings and conferences with other offices have also been equipped with their own video conferencing system. We have noticed that this is not only a very good way of facilitating rapid and effective communication between all offices, but it also has a side effect in that we have been able to reduce the number of rapid-response trips, which are most often the types that result in less desirable modes of transport from an environmental point of view. Of course, each employee also has access to other types of individual communication programs available on the market. The communication systems enable instant messaging as well as video conferencing and screen sharing, and by these means can largely replace physical meetings. The level of bookings for the shared video conferencing systems is high and the degree of utilisation of booked rooms is satisfactory. A review of how the degree of utilisation can be increased is currently underway, i.e. that booking is efficient and flexible and that booked times are fully utilised. That the booking system is working smoothly and that employees experience it as efficient are important elements in the efforts to reduce the number of business trips. Business trips – choosing the mode of transport The need to develop clearer guidelines on making the choice between a video conferencing meeting and a business trip as well as mode of transport has become apparent during the years. As a part of this, the CBG has drawn up a policy for official travel in which the environmental aspect has been highlighted as an important element for all employees to consider when contemplating travel on official business. In the cases where travel is unavoidable, the company's employees are encouraged to as far as possible choose the mode of transport that has least environmental impact. In addition to the statistics on the number of business trips, the choice of mode of transport and the reason for booking the trip, an examination is made of the alternative options available when the trip was booked, both in terms of mode of transport and VC meetings, for example. The survey takes into account the number of employees and travel frequency at different levels of responsibility within the company. We can observe that the effects have been good, in particular at higher levels of responsibility, in terms of internal company travel (to other offices within the company), and not least in terms of rapid-response trips, which have decreased noticeably. Paper consumption The nature of CBG's business means that the consumption of printing paper is almost inevitably likely to be at a very high level. For us it is very important both to hold down paper consumption as much as possible and to ensure that the paper we purchase is of high environmental standard, and that all employees use each sheet of paper in a sensible and effective manner. During 2013, we developed clearer and extended guidelines for this, not least thanks to the tips and best practices from our employees themselves, who of course are usually the best source of sensible tips based on their knowledge of their own work procedures. It can be very tiring for the eyes to make extensive checks of text on a computer screen. Instead, such texts are often printed out in order to work from paper. With this in mind, we are also developing software and macros for automatic checks that perform important parts of these demanding processes, and extensive efforts are currently being made in this area. Energy conservation CBG continues to urge its employees to avoid standby mode and to shut down all equipment and switch off all lighting at the end of the day. 4. Anti-corruption UNGC Principles The tenth principle of the United Nations Global Compact concerns Anti-corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CBG Corporate statement policy CBG corporate values are based on honesty, fairness and transparency. Our operations shall prevent corruption and unfair business practices on all levels by internalising our business code of ethics in all activities and scrupulously following all applicable laws (international and national). All CBG employees are expected to respect, follow and promote these practices. /Extract from the CBG CSR Policy/ In our capacity as an international company with both operations and partners throughout the world, it is of great importance to CBG to have and maintain a good reputation. For this reason, we take a serious view of corruption and bribery, which is reflected in our policy of zero tolerance. Our business is conducted ethically and strictly in accordance with laws in force. CBG conducts regular risk analyses in order to assess the risk of corruption in the countries in which the company operates. Sweden now has reformed anti-bribery legislation. CBG views this new legislation as a good opportunity to further spread and establish the company’s values on bribery and corruption, as well as increase the risk awareness in this area. Discussions are currently ongoing as to how the company can most effectively increase employee awareness and knowledge of the new law, of corruption and bribery in general, as well as their risks and consequences. One step toward this increased knowledge consists of training events aimed at employees who may be confronted with such situations. A further step involves arranging a workshop where case studies provide the supporting information for discussions about how situations involving corruption can be avoided and prevented. The training is preceded by work on in-depth objective setting where concrete definitions are clarified with regard to how and where the training is implemented, on what occasion, which company employees should participate and the outcome the training is expected to deliver.
