UN Global Compact: 2014 Communication on Progress for DC RMS LTD October 2014 October 2014 UN Global Compact: 2014 Communication on Progress for DC RMS LTD Table of Contents Document Verification ............................................................................................................................................2 Chief Executive Officer’s statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact ................... 3 Human Rights ..................................................................................................................................4 Labour .............................................................................................................................................6 Environment ....................................................................................................................................8 Anti-Corruption ..............................................................................................................................10 Document Verification Responsible (The person who actually produced the document) David Fletcher, Compliance Manager Accountable (The person who has the answer for the success or failure of the quality and timeliness of the document) William Ritchie, Vice President Logistics & Administrative Support Consulted (Those who must be consulted before the document is published) Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Director Legal & Commercial Informed (Those who must be informed after the document is published) All Stakeholders of DC RMS LTD (via the UN Global Compact website and www.drum-cussac.com) Endorsed (The person who must approve the document after the document is published) Andrew Littlejohns, Chief Executive Officer Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 2 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 Chief Executive Officer’s statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that DC RMS LTD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As our business continues to develop in support of clients operating in complex and hostile environments, where our business values can often be challenged, our commitment to the Global Compact remains as pertinent and relevant as ever. By meeting these challenges and those of our clients through the application of the Ten Principles and other similar values we are enabling an effective contribution to the wider global community. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Andrew Littlejohns CEO, DC RMS LTD Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 3 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals DC RMS LTD is committed to conducting all of its business in a legal and ethical manner underpinned by an ethos of transparency. The ethics to which the company is committed are laid out in our newly implemented Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, which also describes the framework under which these will be governed and monitored. Our commitment to responsible business practice is further underlined by our uptake of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and our progress towards them as described in this Communication on Progress (COP). We wholeheartedly support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are pertinently aware of its implications and our obligations therein when viewed against the complex nature of certain areas of the World in which we operate; our Human Rights Policy together with the associated methodology for conducting human rights based impact assessments remains under continual review. Implementation The allocation of accountability and responsibility for the protection of Human Rights within DC RMS LTD is within the CEO’s remit; however due to the expanding nature of the company we are currently reviewing which function within the Senior Management Team should hold responsibility in future times. To further our engagement with stakeholders and affected parties in the countries in which we operate, we have actively facilitated the deployment of and subsequent liaison with Host Nation forces; however at no time does the company directly engage with payments or contractual terms for these personnel; the company introduces its contracting client to the Host Nation forces for these matters. The company has instigated a reporting system across all areas of its deployed operations that allows for transparent reporting of concerns that may arise during any planned task. The reports are received by the HSSE Director who has a direct line of communication to the CEO, and consequently the Board. In addition, Liaison Officers from Host Nation forces provide a critical link between our own operationally deployed personnel and the individual Host Nation personnel. This enables any potential issues to be quickly identified and suitable resolutions found with direct involvement from the in-country personnel whom form part of our operations and the company’s own in-country management, all of which is carefully overseen by our highly skilled UK-based operations staff. Measurement of Outcomes The company has provided pre-deployment support and advice to Host Nation forces in our work as security advisors to our clients: This support has covered the following areas: • Detainee Management • Rules for the Use of Force • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights • First Aid and Sea Survival The company has the ability to expand this support and is engaged with relevant government departments at the highest level to develop its support programmes. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 4 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 DC RMS LTD is one of the founding signatories of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers; one of our Directors was a member of the Temporary Steering Committee and subsequently elected onto the Board of the newly created ICOC Association. We are a member of the United Kingdom’s Security in Complex Environments Group (SCEG), which is a special interest group within the UK trade association Aerospace, Defence, Security and Space (ADS); formed in January 2011 to define, develop and facilitate robust, internationally recognised professional standards for the UK Private Security Sector operating abroad. We have undergone external third party verification in certain areas of our worldwide operations with only positive findings being recorded. To date, the company has not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to the abuse of Human Rights. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 5 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals DC RMS LTD respects and values the individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the business and we seek to create a positive and open working environment wherever we operate. We are passionate about delivering superior service to our clients as our reputation and ultimate success in the marketplace is built upon the trust and confidence of those who invest in us, and we are dedicated to protecting their long-term interests. Accordingly we seek to establish mutually beneficial relationships with all our suppliers, and encourage them to match our high standards in respect of personal health, safety, working conditions and trading practices. Success in business is dependent on compliance with legal constraints, together with sensitivity to local customs and conventions governing business relationships; the communities in which we operate, and in certain cases from which we draw our employees, are very important to us. The International Labour Organisation’s Core Conventions that deal with Forced Labour, Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, Equal Remuneration, Discrimination, Minimum Age, and Worst Forms of Child Labour are all taken into account when contracts are drafted for both individual terms of assignment and operational service provision to our clients. Implementation All personnel deployed on operational duties have access to the companywide suggestions scheme by way of anonymously attributable suggestion boxes in key locations. The company’s Combined Standards Management System incorporates OHSAS 18001, which places the obligation of provision of safe systems of work into the hands of our colleagues as well as being endorsed from the Senior Management Team. Although DC RMS LTD is registered and incorporated within the legal framework of England & Wales, we do operate in diverse locations around the World and ensure that we remain compliant with all local legislation. This is achieved by a dedicated in-house legal team that is supported, as and when necessary, by external advisors that are selected and vetted from either the established international echelons of legal practice or from more specialist local niche markets if considered relevant. All of our subcontractors and third party service providers are vetted prior to use, as well as on an ongoing basis, and we expect all of these individuals and organisations to respect our values and ethics when they are engaged by us. Additionally, all full time staff and individuals otherwise engaged by the company are required, at induction phase, to undergo training on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Measurement of Outcomes A risk assessment is conducted prior to the acceptance of any task; at times the result of an assessment has meant that the company has refused to tender for certain work due to ethical reasons. Being a signatory to ICOC, the company has developed a grievance mechanism to deal with any alleged reported breaches of human rights – this is accessible through our website. The company is aware that its biggest assets are the people who it engages with to contribute to its operational delivery of risk management services; accordingly the company takes it’s ‘duty of care’ towards such personnel extremely seriously and wishes to promote a healthy, ethical and safe work environment. This duty is discharged by a number of different means, with three significant areas worthy of note in this COP: Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 6 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 • Firstly; our Annual HSSE Performance Report for 2013 sets out the company’s HSSE performance for the year and takes account of all our deployed operations across the globe. HSSE performance was overall very positive with no Lost Time Injuries occurring in the period that had a targeted Lost Time Injury Frequency* of 0.5, being aligned with The International Association of Oil & Gas Producers Benchmark of 0.48. Frequencies of less severe incidents such as Restricted Work Cases* and Medical Treatment Cases* saw significant reductions from the previous reporting period and positively exceeded the set targets. This key data, together with further statistics and plans for the coming months, is discussed in detail in the Annual HSSE Performance Report, a copy of which can be obtained upon request from any of our offices. (*As defined by The International Association of Oil & Gas Producers http://www.ogp.org.uk/publications/safetycommittee/safety-performance-indicators1/safety-performance-indicators-2013-data/) • Secondly; the decision to carry out HSE Culture Surveys across the business for management and security consultants is well-justified from a business and client perspective. The results highlighted target areas for improvement. The results also highlight our perception range on the HSE Culture Ladder. In time, as we achieve the learning legacy points from the lowest scoring questions within the survey, we shorten the perception range and therefore have more alignment from promotion and implementation of our safety management systems. The aim is for continuous improvement and communication of our embedded safety management systems across the business, which in time will see the company move up the culture ladder with improved best practices and our commitment to the highest standards of safety. The HSE Culture Survey report is an opportunity to share our safety culture with clients, staff and consultants across the business; showcasing a structured framework upon which our safety management systems are built and identifying areas for improvement from a relentless focus on safety. • Finally; our certification to OHSAS 18001:2007 has been renewed this year, by means of external verification by our chosen UKAS accredited certification body, United Registrar of Systems. To date, the company has not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant events related to violations of Labour principles. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 7 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 Environment Assessment Policy and Goals DC RMS LTD’s environmental impact is assessed as low; however the company is aware of the importance of ‘Environmental Stewardship’ and as a responsible operator within the global community has incorporated environmental aspects into its management system. An extract from our Combined Standards Management System Policy Statement explains this further: “The company’s environmental commitment aims to minimise the use of materials and to ensure that paper-based products used are from a sustainable source. It is further committed to reduce emissions to land, air and water by complying with all known environmental legislation with the main objective of preventing pollution. This will be achieved by reviewing its processes, emissions and use of resources, and by promoting a continual improvement philosophy throughout all of its activities.” The company has written environmental procedures to identify all environmental aspects of its activities. These aspects are listed, evaluated and those deemed to be significant are clearly identified and controlled. Explicit environmental goals are currently under review by the company following a number of external and internal audits of the management system that were carried out this year. Implementation The CEO accepts ultimate responsibility for the Environmental Management System and ensures that sufficient resources are made available to achieve the objectives of the management system in accordance with appropriate, approved procedures and statutory/regulatory requirements. Employees, contractors and visitors are instructed on those issues that they need to be made aware of when working for, or partnering with the company either domestically within our offices, or as deployed operational personnel elsewhere. Although in certain circumstances, due to contractual issues, we are obliged to take our lead from clients’ environmental management systems, we try whenever possible to exert our influence where it is identified that operating practices could be improved. In order to reduce our waste to landfill impact the following internal environmental controls exist: • Simple two-stream mixed dry recycling of office generated waste • Switch to default black and white only printing • Recycling of printer toner cartridges All employees are made aware of the environmental aspects of our organisation during their induction process and are actively encouraged to support them on an ongoing basis. This year we have undertaken to effectively monitor the CO2 footprint that is generated as a result of flights taken by both staff and subcontractors, and look forward to reporting further on this in our next COP. Measurement of outcomes Since our last COP the company has instigated quarterly HSE review meetings that have scheduled attendance for the CEO, various management representatives and chaired by the HSSE Director. The purpose of the meetings is to provide input, implementation and communication of HSSE initiatives across the company. Pertinent points that have been discussed in recent meetings extend to: Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 8 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 • Inclusion of specific clauses within contracts so as to adequately address HSSE responsibilities when the company is contracting or supplying vessels for Offshore Projects work • Internal awards for HSSE Excellence; 5 awards have been made in the last year, serving to highlight individual subcontractors’ outstanding contributions to HSSE • The company has renewed certification to ISO 14001:2004 this year, by means of external verification by our chosen UKAS accredited certification body, United Registrar of Systems • The creation of a companywide database that will allow for a more streamlined ability in the area of tracking HSSE and other non-conformities To date, the company has not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to Environmental principles. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 9 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 Anti-Corruption Assessment Policy and Goals DC RMS LTD is part of a bigger group of companies known as DC RMS Holdings Limited, and therefore abides by the Global Anti-Corruption Policy that DC RMS Holdings has in place, which states: “DC RMS Holdings Limited, its parents and subsidiary entities (the DC Group) has a zero tolerance approach to all forms of corruption and this policy applies to all DC Group directors, employees, agents, suppliers, business partners and any other third parties connected or affiliated with the DC Group. It is DC Group policy to comply with all laws, rules and regulations governing anti-bribery and anti-corruption law, in all countries where the DC Group operates. The DC Group is committed to conducting its business and affairs so as to ensure that it does not engage in, or facilitate, any form of corruption.” The policy goes on to state adherence to the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (1977) and the UK Bribery Act 2010, as well as any other relevant local anti-corruption laws globally. At the date of this report the company has operated in countries with a Corruption Perception Index* ranging from 15 to 90. Accordingly, we do operate in complex environments where in some cases the rule of law has broken down, and those personnel operating under our direction may come into contact with nefarious individuals wishing to gain immorally from our presence. Therefore, prior to engagement in any particular geography our operatives are reminded of the contents of the policy and properly briefed of the risks and how to mitigate them. (* As defined by Transparency International http://transparency.org/ ) Implementation The company has a very clear ‘whistleblowing’ mechanism that is available to all staff. In the event that anyone connected to the DC Group is faced with corruption, bribery, blackmail or extortion the demand should firstly be refused and then immediately reported to the nominated persons detailed in our Global Anti-Corruption Policy – at the date of this COP these are listed as Andrew Littlejohns (CEO) and Cheryl Shearer (Global HR Manager). The company’s full time employees have all undergone anti-bribery and corruption training as part of their induction programme. All of our service providers are vetted prior to engagement; are made aware of our responsibilities under the various international mechanisms described above, and how these in turn relate to their own operations, coupled with our expectations of their performance once they are tasked. Furthermore, due to the long-established nature of the company and the relationships that has been built up over time, there are a large number of trusted providers that have the experience of operating and engaging face-to-face locally in challenging environments, resulting in the perceived need for corruption being effectively eliminated by long-standing engagement with the community. Measurement of Outcomes Earlier this year DC RMS LTD signed the UN Global Compact’s Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda. By supporting this initiative, the company hopes that other like-minded organisations will be persuaded to join the growing number of global entities who are committed to calling on states to enforce greater anticorruption laws and policies, which in turn should reduce the cost of corruption to doing business and create a fairer environment for all. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 10 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 As previously mentioned in the Labour section of this COP, the company has developed a grievance mechanism to deal with any alleged reported breaches of human rights, therefore the same process should be used to deal with incidents of corruption. During this year the company’s operationally delivered risk management services have been extensively audited, both internally and externally, by a number of different entities against different standards and guidelines, in multiple locations in which we operate; at no point have any areas of concern arisen regarding the ethical delivery of our services. Focussing specifically on our financial mechanisms, DC RMS LTD is subject to a statutory external audit annually. As part of these audits we are subject to questions and testing to identify any instances of bribery or corrupt behaviour. There have been no instances of fraud that have been reported to us as a result of the audit procedures. Throughout the company we implement segregation of duties to ensure that opportunity for bribery or fraud is minimal. All accounting records are maintained in accordance with local regulations. To date, the company has not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to Corruption and Bribery. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 11 Commercial in Confidence October 2014 Disclaimer DC RMS LTD and any of its affiliated or associated companies, or any company in the Drum Cussac group of companies makes no representation, warranties or assurance against risk with respect to the contents or use of this document, and specifically disclaims any express or implied warranties or usefulness for any particular purpose of this publication. Recommendations made are based on information provided by the client and other information available at the time of writing. No express or implied warranty is given in respect of any judgment made or to changes or any unforeseen escalation of any factors affecting any such judgment. DC RMS LTD reserves the right to change or revise this document, in consultation with the recipient. This document has been prepared for the exclusive use and benefit of the addressee(s) and solely for the purpose for which it is provided. Unless we provide express prior written consent, no part of this report should be reproduced, distributed or communicated to any third party. We do not accept any liability if this report is used for an alternative purpose from which it is intended, nor to any third party in respect of this report. Copyright Copyright 2014 DC RMS LTD and companies in the Drum Cussac group of companies. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, photocopied, stored on a retrieval system, or transmitted without the express prior consent of DC RMS LTD and companies in the Drum Cussac group of companies. The client agrees to indemnify DC RMS LTD and companies in the Drum Cussac group of companies against any claims and any resulting damages that may be caused by any unauthorised disclosure of such documents. Confidentiality This document is graded as Commercial in Confidence and should be transmitted, communicated, stored and secured accordingly. Tel: 24hrs +44 (0) 1202 802 060 Email: info@drum-cussac.com Website: www.drum-cussac.com © Copyright DC RMS LTD. 2014. All rights reserved 12 Commercial in Confidence
