CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2 22 Contents TITAN Group Profile. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 USJE Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Message from the Chief Executive Director. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2013 at a Glance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Our Footprint. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 CSR Strategy and Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 CSR & Sustainability Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Health & Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Our people . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Environment and Climate Change. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Stakeholder Engagement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Community Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Corporate Volunteering. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 UN Global Compact Network participation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 UN Global Compact Initiative & GRI Disclosures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 3 3 TITAN Profile Revenue by region €m EBITDA by region €m U.S.A. 411.0 U.S.A. 32.1 Greece and Greece and Western Western Europe 249.8 Europe 13.9 Southeastern Southeastern Europe 215.5 Europe 62.7 Eastern Mediterranean Eastern 299.7 Mediterranean 87.3 4 4 Usje Profile Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje (or USJE) was founded in 1955 near the USJE village in the southeast part of the city of Skopje. In Our Strategy 1998, USJE was acquired by the TITAN Group. The company employs 331 direct employees and over 190 indirect employees. Our Group’s Governing Objective is to grow as a multi-regional, vertically integrated cement producer,combining an entrepreneurial spirit and operational excellence with respect for people, society and the environment. Our Code of Conduct is based on our Core Values: INTEGRITY KNOW-HOW DELIVERING RESULTS VALUE TO THE CUSTOMER CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5 5 Our CORE Operating Principles We are committed to Fai protecting and advancing huWe are committed r C to creating value and man rights as defined in the sus-tainable growth, integrating Universal Declaration of Human human, environmental and social om Rights (UNDHR) and the We are committed to International Labor Organization’s elements into our business decisions. We ensuring that TITAN Group pe aim to minimize the adverse impact of our t iti o n conventions on labor. acti-vities are carried out within activities on the environment and the communities in which we operate, a frame-work of fair competition and contribute to the well being and in strict compliance with of the employees, their families, all applicable laws and neighboring communities regulations in the various and society at large. countries where we operate. While our Corporate Values form the foundation upon which we conduct business worldwide, compliance Safeguarding with the applicable laws and the health and regulations in every country where safety of our direct and we operate is a core principle that indirect employees in all our must be followed by all employees workplaces is our highest Group Mitigating and business associates priority. The Group therefore complies, at and reducing the of TITAN Group. a minimum, with all applicable legislation. environmental foot-print Our employees and contractors deriving from our operations are required to respect and comply and business activities with the health and safety policies constitutes one of the main and standards laid down by the commit-ments of TITAN Group as reflected in local safety Group. policy manuals. 6 6 All Group transactions must be carried out lawfully and ethically, in accordance with all applicable We are committed to ensuring laws and regulations and must always engagement, cooperation and good respect the United Nations Convention neighbor relations with local communities against Corruption (UNCAC). Employees or in all areas where Group facilities operate... representatives of TITAN must not offer, provide, It focuses mainly on the contribution of accept, or promise, either directly or indirectly, know-how, experience, technical and financial any undue financial or other advantage support for initiatives and actions that to a public and/or private official for advance education and training. Protecting the purpose of obtaining any the environment and promoting health favorable treatment or business and safety are at the forefront of our advantage. commitment to meeting business objectives and achieving long-term sustainability. Our relations with custoEmployee relations mers and suppliers must rest on within the Group are based foundations of trust, reciprocal respect, on mutual trust, understanding, fairness and honesty, thereby ensuring honesty and long-term cooperation. We are committed to open communication… providing products and services of the highest We are committed to having a quality by employing all resources of technology, respectful and inclusive work We are committed to open, research and contemporary methods of operation environment wherein different ideas, transparent, impartial and timely and in full compliance with applicable laws perspectives, and beliefs communication with our employees, relating to health and safety and other product are respected. shareholders and other stakeholders, requirements. Our suppliers are expected to with a view toward building long-term be quality-driven, innovative and efficient relations based on mutual trust. We and to operate in accordance with the seek to listen to and engage with applicable laws and regulations. our stakeholders. (For more information on Code of Conduct, please visit http://www.usje.com.mk/Defaultebf1.html?mid=112&Lan=EN) 7 7 Message from the Chief Executive Director Dear partners, dear friends, You have in front of you the new Report clear confirmation of the successfully on corporate social responsibility and implemented plans which, in addition sustainable development of Cementarnica to creating additional conditions for the USJE AD Skopje. As a socially responsible development of USJE, create benefits for and transparent company, we continue all stakeholders. For us, this is the greatest our commitments for open and partner confirmation that we have met the relationship with all our partners who are objectives. Our aim to achieve successful directly or indirectly related to our operations business results involves responsibility that is and activities in the community. characteristic of all successful companies, and it is the responsibility of making the We at USJE are committed to implementing community a better place for all through our planned activities and achieving our activities. our company goals. They are certainly of paramount importance to the success of In this regard, I would like to highlight our our operations, but also it is important to big investment in implementing the A share them with you, because our activities Integrated Environmental Permit. With these are important not only for USJE, but also for investments, USJE became one of the our partners and the broader community. first companies to acquire this important environmental certificate, which guarantees Starting from the basic motto that the operations in line with the environment success of a company is impossible if according to strict European regulations. considered separately, we are fully aware Last year, we commissioned the new that our success is only possible as a parallel Treatment plant for storm water, the first of process to the success of the broader its kind in Macedonia. With this investment, community. Neither strategy of a company even though Cementarnica USJE does or institution is complete, if it does not take not use water in its technological process, into account the effects of actions taken on we make continuous efforts to conserve the broader community. water as a natural resource. Once again To our great pleasure, the retrospective we proved the open approach of USJE to implemented activities provides and the support to the education and 8 8 development with the start of the project will again be on the youngest and on for practical training of students from safe growth and development. In this line technical high schools of the mechanical is the implementation of infrastructure and electrical profession in Skopje. With this and horticultural projects that will enable project too, the same as with all others that young people to grow in a more beautiful are implemented in many areas, we clearly environment, having more opportunities. reaffirm our sincere intention to encourage USJE is the leader in the market for building development actively and directly. materials. We have high-quality product The awards for socially responsible practices and a great team that is dedicated to new that we received only confirm our efforts successes. We continue in the future with and the specific contribution in this field, but even greater enthusiasm and commitment also provide an additional incentive. to the implementation of all our goals. We sincerely hope that our partnership will The safety and health of our employees continue in the future in order to create new and our partners remain our priority. People values for all. remain our most important resource and they deserve the credit for all our achievements. Hence, safety at work and Boris Hrisafov regular health checks and the care for their Chief Executive Director families continues in the coming period, including many novelties. We already continuously strive to achieve zero injuries at the workplace by providing safe conditions and means for safe operation, as well as continuous training programs for our employees and contractors. We should keep in mind that the projects we implement in cooperation with the local community continue and the emphasis 9 9 2013 at a glance Customer Support More than 170 direct visits to our customers by more than 30 USJE employees, management team and Health and Safety other key employees to identify customers’ needs  Zero fatalities and zero serious accidents and concerns  91% decrease in the number of LTI (Lost Time Injury) since 2005  84% decrease in the LTIFR (LTI Frequency Ratio) since 2005  91% decrease in the LTISR (LTI Severity Ratio) since 2005 Engaging with our Stakeholders Our employees, contractors, suppliers & customers  100% of our contractors’ employees were trained on Health & Safety through our new Contractor Management process  USJE provides work and revenue of more than 35 million euro per year to the local companies  More than 6.600 training hours provided for all employees i.e. over 20 training hours per employee  Care about wellbeing of our employees:  Preventive health examinations  Extended blood tests  Spa treatments 1010  Decrease of 4% in the specific gross CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product, compared to previous year  Reduction of dust and SOx emissions beyond the 2015 targets (30 mg/Nm3 and 400 mg/Nm3 respectively)  Inauguration of the first Water Treatment Plant for atmospheric and street cleaning water in the country More than 26.000 trees, saddles & flowers planted in 2013 in our Quarries Customer Support and local community USJE in 2013 receives the National Award for the best socially responsible practices for 2012 in the category Market Relations as well as Recognition in the category Environment. Community Development  Partnering with Schools Project  Playgrounds in the Municipality  5.000 roses for the City  University & MBA scholarships  Support of children with special needs  USJE management and employees volunteered in the actions Macedonia Without Waste and Food for the street children 11 11 1963 USJE provides materials for reconstruction of Skopje after the earthquake Our Footprint 1967 First Electrostatic precipitators are installed in Ex-Yugoslavia by Cementarnica USJE 2000/2001 Bag-filter is installed on line  1.24 million tons of raw materials exno.3 and clinker cooler is tracted from 3 active quarries reconstructed  Almost 1 million m2 is the total area of 2002/2003 Bag-filter is installed at Kiln active quarries, out of which 585.000 No.4 m2 only are affected by operations 2004 Installed system for indepen 14.500 m2 of active quarries have dent 24-hour continuous been rehabilitated in 2013 by planting measurement of emissions local trees and bushes 2004 Certified with Quality System ISO 9001:2000 2006 Certified with Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 2008 USJE becomes a member of  About 176.000 trees planted by USJE or donated to third parties for plantthe Global Compact Network Macedonia ing since 1998, while over 26.000 trees were planted in 2013 only 2009 For the first time in the region and in TITAN Group  More than € 1,000,000 spent for enviUSJE starts with continuous ronmental investments in 2013 public announcing of the environmental measurement data 2009 USJE establishes CSR Committee 2010 Contractors Management H&S System established 2010 USJE publishes its First CSR 12 12 and Sustainable Development Report 2010 USJE receives National Award Total annual emissions: for best CSR practices in the category Employees Relation  Dust particulates 18.31 tons and Recognition by the Municipality of Kisela Voda  NOx 1.578 tons 2010 USJE organizes 1st Stakeholders Engagement Forum  SOx 72.6 tons 2011 Certified with Health & Safety Management System OHSAS 18001-2007 2010-2011 556 days without workplace  For new investment in fixed assets: injury More than € 72 million since 1998 2011 USJE obtains A Integrated Environmental Permit A-IPPC  More than € 77.000 spent for community development programs 2011 USJE receives National Award through donations in cash and in for best CSR practices in the kind in 2013 category Environment and three plaques in the categories Community Investment, Employee Relations and  331 attendees of training Ethical Governance programs including all own employees with 20.1 hours 2011 First Company Open Day per attendee in 2013 organized 2012 Stakeholders Communication Day was organized on communicating our CSR & Sustainability Report of 2011 to all our stakeholders 2012 The first Communication Day fоr USJE employees was organized 13 13 CSR Strategy & Corporate Governance CSR – a shared responsibility We are committed to creating value and sustainable growth, integrating Corporate social responsibility is a shared responsibility for the TITAN human, environmental and social elements into our business decisions. We Group, both top-down and bottom-up. USJE’s CSR Committee is established aim to minimize the adverse impact of our activities on the environment in 2009 and is responsible for integrating and implementing TITAN Group and the communities in which we operate, and contribute to the well being strategy at the local level. Chaired by the CED and consisting of senior of the employees, their families, neighboring communities and society at management and experts in health and safety, the environment and large. Thus, our CSR Vision is: “To pursue at all times our business goals human resources management, the CSR Committee meets four times and create value, in an ethical and socially responsible manner, each year, and in some cases monthly, to review and assess action plans minimizing our footprint, and endeavoring to do more good.” and performance achieved, as well as to facilitate and initiate further improvements at both local and regional levels. The Company follows established global best practices of corporate governance in its management and has five non-executive members in its To ensure further cohesion within the Group, USJE’s CSR Committee has Board of Directors, two of which are also independent. appointed one of its members as a representative to the Group CSR Liaison Delegates Network (LDN) aiming at improving internal communication, Anti-corruption Commitment sharing and learning from Group’s best practice. We are committed to and we follow the Titan Group and our: One of our Group’s Code of Conduct core principles is Bribery and • CSR Strategy Corruption, stipulating that all Group transactions must be carried • Group Code of Conduct out lawfully and ethically, in accordance with all applicable laws and • Group CSR Policy regulations and must always respect the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC)*. Employees or representatives of TITAN must Organizational structure not offer, provide, accept, or promise, either directly or indirectly, any undue and CSR Committee Credit Control financial or other advantage to a public and/or private official for the Health & Safety purpose of obtaining any favorable treatment or business advantage. Manager Internal Auditor An employee or business associate who commits bribery while on duty Legal Section may be subject to civil and criminal liability, in accordance with applicable laws as well as to termination of her/his employment. Chief Executive Another issue governed by the Code of Conduct is the issue of Gifts and Director Donations, which sets forth that all employees are prohibited from offering, CSR Comitee soliciting or accepting gifts, donations in cash or any other form and any benefit related to the performance of our duties. * UN Resolution 58/4 of 31 October 2003 United Nations Convention against Corruption. *Managers of green-coloured departments as well as HR Manager and CSR Officer are members of CSR Committee 1414 Governance for Sustainability CSR & Corporate Governance Milestones The TITAN Group has been guided by certain values throughout its • 2008 – USJE joined UN Global Compact history. Operationalizing these corporate values practically putting them into practice is a task in which all USJE employees can make a • 2008 & 2006 H&S Policy and Environmental Policy adopted difference. Our commitment to applying the highest standards of corporate • 2009 – USJE was one of the leader members in TITAN Group being governance has been additionally underlined by the decision of the USJE the first company to establish CSR Committee consisted of the to comply above and beyond the provisions of LOCAL LEGISLATIONS AND top management as well as the managers of the key CSR related INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS. departments. Corporate social responsibility and sustainable development have been embedded step-by-step in the governance and management of • 2009 onwards – USJE regularly issues its CSR & Sustainability Report & USJE operations. Meeting business objectives, both in the short and longGRI disclosures term, is regarded as a shared responsibility among all TITAN and USJE management teams. • 2010 CSR Policy & CSR Vision adopted Pledges and commitments HR Manager CSR Officer Pledges and commitments undertaken by the Titan Group and USJE Company in line with our values, Code of Conduct and priorities: Sales Administration Department • Global Compact (UN Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Conventions) Administration and Purchasing Section • WBCSD/CSI (sectoral initiative) Commercial Manager • GRI (Reporting Guidelines) Finance Department • ISO 14001, ISO 9000, OHSAS 18001, (norms and equivalent local standards) Production Department • EU strategy 2011-14 for Corporate Social Responsibility (Oct. 2011) Technical Director Maintenance • U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Department • U.N. “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework Quality Environmental Department Department 15 15 CSR PERFORMANCE the Company’s management and employees have been personally engaged in further increasing safety awareness throughout its operations. Measuring performance against set targets and objectives is a Our Occupational Health & Safety policy clearly defines the role of significant factor for self-improvement. This is a long-term, on-going and everyone involved in reaching and continuously improving a strong culture challenging process which initiates change at all levels. Just as we of accident prevention in all our operations. We are aligned with the world measure and manage our financial performance, similar efforts are made statistics that the root cause of more than 95% of incidents has to do with the to measure and track our social performance. Challenges clearly arise in human factor, and thus we are concentrating our efforts on safety awareness this area, however, as qualitative issues can be more complex to measure of our people. For that effort, our indirect employees are treated the same than those that are purely quantitative. way with our direct ones. The number of jobs created or donations given to a community, for We are focused and benchmarking ourselves on continuously improving example, fails to adequately capture the complex synergies that are the leading rather than the lagging H&S key Performance Indicators. Reporting created through collaborative initiatives in which financial and material and thoroughly investigating all accidents and near misses, training our own resources are coupled with human resources. While we recognize this employees as well as contractors’ employees, establishing safety committees challenge, we make consistent efforts to share best practices with other on site but also on higher levels and recognizing and awarding good safety businesses and industries in order to more fully capture the impacts of our performance have been among the numerous actions we have undertaken operations on society. and are in a non-ending implementation process. HEALTH & SAFETY In addition, risk assessment has been a power tool in the hands of our people, proactively working towards further developing a safety culture. Our objective is to achieve our vision of a healthy work environment free of incidents, injuries and accidents USJE has always been committed to health and safety in the workplace, a commitment that is clearly expressed through the Group’s and our corporate values. Within the context of pursuing the philosophy of ‘zero harm to people’ 1616 Finally, performance on safety has become a key career management criterion for the development of our people, placing health & safety as a top business priority. Target 2011 Results 2013 Target 2015 Successful external Complete the process Continuous surveillance audit on OHSAS of OHSAS 18001:2007 improvement; Regularly 18001:2007 system; Valid certification audit and re-certify certificate until 2017 Maintain Zero fatalities Zero fatalities and zero Zero fatalities and zero and zero serious serious accidents serious accidents accidents LTI and LTI Severity Rate have Continuous decrease in decreased compared to the Lost Time Injury (LTI), 2012 because of one injury Achieve and sustain zero LTI Frequency Rate and LTI which happened during the LTI, LTIFR and LTISR Severity Rate year compared to the 2 in 2012 Full implementation Achieve full compliance Implement the new of the Contractor with the CSI guidelines Contractor Safety Safety Management. on Contractor Safety Management process Implementation of Driving Management and Safety by mid of 2014 Driving Safety 17 17 Central Committee for Health and Safety Commitment to H&S is obligation of each employee, from the CED to the blue-collar workers. Aiming to continuous improvement in our performance, we have established a system, the so-called Central Committee for Health & Safety, engaging 23 employees responsible for its continuous monitoring and development.The Central Committee is structured in 5 subcommittees: Safety Incidents, Safety Audits, Contractor Management, Leading Indicators and Rules and Procedures. Each subcommittee has specific tasks and responsibilities. The common and final goal is to safeguard the H&S of our and contractor’s employees as one of the basic human rights at the workplace. In 2013, total of six meetings of the H&S Central Committee were held. Cement Sustainability Initiative *LTI – A Lost Time Injury (LTI) is defined as a work-related injury causing the absence of one or more working USJE has committed to apply even higher standards in H&S than required days (or shifts), counting from the day after the injury, before the person returns to normal or restricted by local laws and common practice. As a member of Titan Group, work. Excluded are injuries in transport to and from work, injuries due to criminal act and injuries due to since 2012 we are dedicated to meet the requirements of the “Cement natural causes. Sustainability Initiative” (CSI) which is a global effort by 24 leading cement **LTIFR – Number of LTIs in a year per 1,000,000 hours worked i.e. LTI Frequency Rate = (Number of Lost Time producers with operations in more than 100 countries worldwide (approx. Injuries in a year x 1,000,000)/Total actual hours worked and paid to employees in the year. ***LTISR – Number of lost calendar days due to LTIs in a year per 1,000,000 hours worked i.e. LTI Severity 30% of the world’s cement production). The CSI is an initiative of the World Rate = Number of Lost Calendar Days in a year x 1,000,000)/Total Actual Hours worked and paid to Business Council for Sustainable Development. In addition to regular health employees in the year and safety requirements, there are two separate projects initiated by CSI: Contractor Management and Driving Safety. Comprehensive monthly onThe gap analysis of the current H&S system as well as the continuous line reporting in the CSI database aims to identify the weak points and improvement principle in development of H&S techniques and culture resulted apply corrective measures on a world level. in two very important projects developed during 2013. One of our mid-term goals is to further develop safety culture and sense of Health & Safety Ratios ownership in the medium and lower level of employees.The top management of USJE spent a lot of efforts to create a new “Safety Audits System” that will Health and Safety Performance is continuously monitored, measured, engage more the medium-level employees, raise their ownership awareness, developed, improved and branched out. and by utilizing synergy of involved stakeholders from different departments to achieve the set targets. More than 55 employees are directly involved in this process with different roles: auditors, owners, coordinators. Extensive trainings were finished in late 2013, while implementation starts in January 2014. 1818 Cement industry is an industry that employs heavy machinery and the interventions on machines may bring high risks. The current controls and safety instructions yield satisfactory results, but still there is a human factor involved which gives room for improvement. To further decrease this gap, a new system is developed where each employee will be able to physically lock the machine with his personal padlock before starting the job.This procedure is world-widely known as LOTO (Lock-Out Tag-Out) and USJE is the first company in the country that will implement it. During the second half of 2013 extensive preparatory activities were finalized, including identification of sources of energy per machine and activity, selection of equipment, etc. The process of procurement of equipment, trainings and onsite implementation will take place in 2014. OUR PEOPLE area of our influence and ensuring a law compliant and safe working environment. We build trust by “living” our values and by practicing behaviours Throughout its long history, which ensure mutual respect, collaboration and an open flow of twoTITAN has been a people way communication. Communication day for employees is organized driven organization, re­­ enabling direct communication with management as well as timely cognizing that sus­ta­in­ information-sharing on all issues related to employment conditions and ab­le growth relies on the future perspectives of our business and industry. caliber, behaviour and collaboration of our pe­ Employment ople, who are at the co­re of our Governing Ob­jec­ Employment at TITAN is ti­ve and our Strategy. This has shaped our vision characterized by long-term to “Ensure an engaged relations with employees. work­force, emotionally In 2013 the number of and mentally”. direct employees was 331 while the number of indirect The TITAN People Management Policy serves as the pathway towards employees was 194 in average. the accomplishment of our vision and is based on the fundamental pillar The indirect employees provide of TITAN Values: Integrity Know-How Value to the Customer Delivering valuable services as support to Results Continuous Improvement – Corporate Social Responsibility. These our core business: quarrying, values describe how we behave and, along with the principles set forth in transportation of goods, our Code of Conduct, constitute the basis for all our business relationships maintenance and technical and practices in every geographical area that we operate, creating a support, cleaning and catering. distinct TITAN identity that also respects local cultural elements. Human Rights & Equal Opportunities The TITAN People Management Policy sets the framework for addressing people-related areas throughout TITAN Group and it applies to direct TITAN supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is committed to employees and business associates, where, to the best of our abilities, we the protection of fundamental human rights within its sphere of influence as shall use our influence to promote the principles of this framework. proclaimed by the U.N. Global Compact. In all our employment selection decisions, the principle of equal Respect for human rights is reflected and incorporated in our People opportunity is applied, while, due consideration is also given to the local Management Policy, applying equally to direct and indirect employees, where: employment needs. We respect human rights, promoting them within the • Full Compliance with Applicable Employment Legislation is ensured 2020 • Diversity, Equality and Non-Discrimination principles are applied and Raising Concerns followed We encourage an open door policy for communication with supervisors • Forced, Compulsory and Child Labour are prohibited and the implementation of grievance mechanisms in all Business Units • Harassment is not tolerated that allow employees to raise concerns of non-compliance with TITAN • Employees’ Health & Safety is a top priority Values and TITAN People Management Policy in good faith. All concerns, which may also be raised anonymously, are dealt with by authorized • The Right of Freedom of Association is respected company representatives in accordance with procedures which ensure • Employees are prepared to address current and future challenges confidentiality and non-disclosure of the name of the person who raises such concern unless otherwise required by the law. Equal opportunities for all are also safeguarded by Human Resources Within this context, we do not tolerate any retaliation against any Policies at both Group as well as company’s local level. Accordingly: employee reporting such concerns. The Company’s management team is comprised of local managers to a level of 86%; Consequence Management Participation of women in managerial positions is 33%; About 18% of all employees are female; Identified non-compliance with the TITAN People Management Policy More than 15% of all employees belong to the ethnic minorities; is handled by detecting the root cause and implementing appropriate disciplinary sanctions. Where an action is also in breach of the law, it may be subject to civil or criminal prosecution. * Human rights as defined by UNDHR and ILO’s Conventions on Labour. Human Resources Development The continuous development of human resources is a priority for USJE aiming at life-long learning and enhancement of professional skills and competencies that are necessary to anticipate present and future challenges. In 2013, we have provided about 6.600 training hours for all employees or about 6.800 hours for employees and contractors. Training hours provided per The Human Resources Section person is more than 20 hours. is responsible for establishing Development activities in environmental area were directed towards local policies and practices sustainable development including in-house training sessions for groups of that are harmonized with the employees on topics such as waste management and alternative fuels. Also, TITAN People Management this year USJE branched out its development endeavors towards contractors Policy, as well as for providing professional support in handling people by organizing and delivering training on waste selection and management for related issues. At the same time, the Management Team is responsible for contractors employees. ensuring that the principles are followed. 21 21 Moreover, programs like the “Step Change” (Self Training E-learning Training & Development Activities in 2013 Program) have been implemented for USJE employees, which is a 732h Man-hours flexible and up-to-date one year program adjusted to the fast-moving 832h and technologically advanced contemporary working environment. The 1603h e-learning content has been developed by Harvard Business Publishing to 426h enhance leadership and management skills of our key employees. 40h 776h One cycle of Wednesday lectures in November 2013 was dedicated to the Group and USJE Code of Conduct, presented by USJE’s HR Manager attended by more than 260 employees. The training was aimed to 1286h disseminate the values and the provisions of our Code of Conduct and 156h make it closer to all our people that live and share our values. 793h Aiming to introduce all employees on their rights upon the Law against Employee benefits, compensation and welfare programs harassment on the workplace, the HR Manager developed and facilitated The employee benefits and social welfare are covered by USJE, training through Wednesday training cycle attended by more than 260 according to the Labour Law and Collective agreement as a minimum. employees. In addition, the Company is committed to the wellbeing of our employees and their families thus our additional benefits respond to their needs. Extra Medical Checkups & Rehabilitation The health of our employees is one of the Company’s priorities. We consider the legal requirements in this area as bare minimum and we make efforts to extend the health prevention and protection benefits for all employees. The regular annual medical check-ups are extended with cardio exams for all USJE employees at the age of 50 and over, including physical test, BMI, EKG, ultrasound, cardiac stress test, laboratory analyses and defining the cardiovascular risk and predictors of heart diseases. A few years in a row, further to the gynaecological and breast exams, additional osteoporosis check-up was introduced for all female employees. This year the exams for all female employees were extended with abdominal and other ultrasound screening. Rehabilitation is supported by the Company by covering 70% of the total price value. In total, about 33.000 Euro were invested in additional health prevention measures for our employees. 2222 Jubilee service awards Every year Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje traditionally awards its employees with 10, 20, 30, 35 and 40 years of service with jubilee awards. USJE significantly appreciates and is proud of its employees, their accomplishments and their contribution to the Company’s strategic goals and long term sustainability. In 2013, 58 employees were awarded with jubilee awards at an organized celebration ceremony. Scholarship Program & School packs for the children of our employees In the effort to create more opportunities for the employees’ families, the Company every year since 2003 implements the Scholarship program for the children of our employees. With this program, the Company grants scholarships for all children of our employees who are successful students at universities, in the course of their graduate or master studies. Scholarships are granted to the children of our deceased employees as well. Acknowledging the financial challenges that every family with children faces at the beginning of every school year, USJE decided to provide additional support to our employees. Since 2010, USJE provides school packs for the children of all our employees. The school packs include back packs, notebooks to all primary and high school children. In addition, every year the Company organizes New Year celebration for the youngest children of the employees to celebrate the holidays.The children receive gifts including books and encyclopaedias that further support their education. In 2013, about 72.000 Euro were invested in the education of the children of all our employees through scholarships and school packs. Welfare programs: Donations in kind Additional severance payment (retirement or disability) Financial aid Spa treatments Vocational guidance for the employees’ children Christmas parties for employees’ children Additional vacation bonus Salary adjustment according to the cost of living Christmas gift vouchers. 23 23 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE • Developing, implementing and monitoring programs to use energy and natural resources more efficiently and to reduce our emissions • Reducing the waste produced by operations, reusing our own byproducts and these of other industries and promoting recycling • Promoting environmentally responsible attitudes and behaviors in all our employees and encourage suppliers, customers and other business associates to adopt similar practices. • Contributing to the well-being of local communities, communicating openly and sincerely with them and pursuing good-neighbor relations. • Supporting and participating in local and international organizations and initiatives designed to protect the environment by sharing knowledge, best practices and with joint actions. Our Vision: To be recognized as one of the Being aware that USJE operations are heavily dependent on the use of leading enterprises in our industry natural resources, we are committed to actions that reduce our operational worldwide on Sustainability and impact on the environment. Monitoring, measuring, reporting, cooperating, Environmental Stewardship. continuously acting and improving is how we address environmental issues. Through our CSR approach, we aim to address these main environmental As stated in our Environmental Policy, sustainable development is a top issues: Group priority at all times and in all circumstances. Our environmental • Climate Change commitment aims at doing less harm by mitigating negative operational • Energy and raw materials impacts and doing more good by actively contributing to worthwhile local and international initiatives. • Air and other emissions We aim at: • Biodiversity • Complying as a minimum with local, national and international • Water regulations and legislation. • Continuously improving of our environmental performance, reviewing USJE continuously strives to address the defined environmental and monitoring, at top management level, the effectiveness of our challenges. In this area, we are fully implementing TITAN policies which programs and actions. guarantee sound and transparent environmental management according • Assessing the environmental impact at each facility, and taking to the international best practices. In addition, we are regularly conducting the necessary measures to protect the biodiversity and natural audit and re-certification of the Environmental Management Standard ISO surroundings. 14001:2004. 2424 Target 2011 Results 2013 Target 2015 Monitoring emissions Monitoring emissions is a pre-condition for controlling and reducing Fully implement the environmental impacts from cement production. In 2004, USJE was the first Fully implemented Operational Plan Operational Plan A-IPPC Permit company in the country to introduce independent continuous monitoring from the A-IPPC Permit from the A-IPPC Permit systems operating 24 hours. This enables the company to closely monitor the emissions on real time basis and take action accordingly. At the same time, it gives interested stakeholders regular, updated information on our Decrease of 4% in the specific performance. At our initiative results from the monitoring are presented at Continuous Reduction of CO2 gross CO2 emissions per ton of USJE’s web page as annual and monthly reports containing daily average reduction of CO2 emissions cementitious product, compared to emission values. emissions previous year Measuring our CO2 footprint We are already Climate change is considered as the most important environmental 8.7 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and 14.9 mg/ below the challenge of our time. The nature of the cement industry is such that it Dust emissions Nm3 for Kiln 4 or 8.5 tons/year and target for dust produces and emits carbon dioxide (CO2), thus contributing to the 9.8 tons/year, respectively emissions 30 greenhouse effect and climate change. Direct CO2 emissions from the mg/Nm3 production of cement itself are attributed to: Decarbonisation, the process of transforming raw materials (mainly 33.9 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and 59.7 We are already marl) into clinker, the main component of cement; mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4, or a total of below the target SOx emissions 33.3 tons/year and 39.3 tons/ for SOx emissions Fuel consumption, including both fuels burned in the kilns (heavy year respectively 400 mg/Nm3 oil and pet-coke) and fuels used for internal transportation, driers and boilers (heavy oil and natural gas), produce CO2 as a result of the chemical reaction between carbon (C) and oxygen (O2). 1036.5 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and 853.1 Reduce specific NOx Indirect emissions of carbon dioxide are released during the production NOx emissions mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4, or total 1017.4 emissions to of electricity required for the production of clinker and cement, as well as and 561.3 tons/year respectively 800 mg/Nm3 during the external transportation of raw materials, fuel and final products. As part of Titan Group we are following WBCSD/CSI standards for Increase the level Participation in USJE took active participation in of participation in calculation and reporting of CO2 emissions. In 2013, USJE’s total direct development of the Third National CO2 emissions were 0.5 million tons, which are lower by 10% compared global and national global and national Communication on Climate Change, environmental environmental to the previous year, while the specific CO2 emissions were 652 kg CO2/t according to protection and climate UNFCCC United Nations Framework protection and cementituous product which is lower than 2011 by 4%. change initiatives climate change Convention on Climate Change initiatives 25 25 The process of preparation of specific fraction of alternative fuels will be made outside Cementarnica USJE, while the ready-made fractions of alternative fuels will be safely transported into the Plant. Based on our application, the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning has implemented the complete procedure for extension of the Permit and on May 22nd, 2013 issued Extension of the A-Integrated Environmental Permit whereby all legal requirements for use of alternative fuels in Cementarnica USJE are met. The extension of the Permit for Cementarnica USJE is verification of our endeavors for environmental protection and minimization of our footprint. In addition to the energy aspects and benefits for Cementarnica USJE, this project provides a very significant added value to environmental protection. More specifically, its practical implementation will ensure: GHG reduction from the co-incineration Waste incineration & Waste used as alternative • Reduced use of fossil fuels cement manufacturing fuel in cement in the production process GHG GHG GHG • Reduced CO2 emission Emissions • Contribution towards es­ Waste Fossil Fuels tab­lishing a targeted was­ Resources Waste Fossil Fuels te fraction mana-gement Waste Incinerator + Cement plant Cement plant sys­tem in the Republic of Rest Waste Cement Products Cement Ma­cedonia. & Energy Air emissions Measures for reduction of CO2 emissions – replacement of fossil fuels with alternative fuels Dust The reduction of CO2 emission in the cement industry can be effectively At cement plants, major dust achieved by use of alternative fuels. To this effect, Cementarnica USJE, emission sources are kiln following the applicable legislation related to environment, in July 2012 has stacks and open surfaces applied for extension of the existing A Integrated Environmental Permit to creating fugitive dust from the include the possibility for use of non-hazardous waste fractions only, such transportation of materials. as In 2013 specific emissions of • Biomass dust were 22.7 g/ton clinker for • Non-hazardous waste fractions (textile, packaging waste etc.) Kiln 3 and 48.1 g/ton clinker • RDF-fractions of municipal waste that otherwise cannot be used. for Kiln 4. This is equivalent to 2626 approximately 8.5 tons and 9.8 tons, respectively per year. Dust emissions Initiatives for noise minimization are many times below the limits (MLV) set by the environmental terms and conditions of both local and EU legal requirements. The average Production of cement, like most other industrial activities, causes noise as concentration of dust for Kiln 3 is 8.7 mg/Nm3 and for Kiln 4 is 14.9 mg/Nm3. a result of the type of equipment employed in the production process, the The MLV is 50 mg/Nm3. transport of materials, etc. The measured noise level at the measurement points along the factory and quarries does not exceed the stipulated SOx permissible limits, according to the country law; nonetheless, as a socially 450 MLV=400mg/Nm3 responsible company, Cementarnica USJE, in cooperation with the Faculty The presence of sulphur (S) in 400 of Natural and Technical Sciences in Stip, has designed a Study for Noise raw materials is the primary 350 300 Reduction in the vicinity of USJE cement plant aiming at further minimization cause of SOx emissions. USJE`s 250 of the noise level. The purpose of the study was to identify the main sources SOx emissions are substantially 200 of noise: more than 100 short-term measurements were made within the below the limits (MLV) set 150 100 factory and 24-hour measurement in the adjacent facilities. The study by the applicable local and 50 EU regulations. The average 0 provides a model for noise dispersion, proposes noise control measures as concentration of SOx for Kiln 3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 well as three scenarios and technical solutions for noise reduction. SO -K3 SO -K4 is 33.9 mg/Nm3 and for Kiln 4 is 2 2 On the basis of this Study, some of proposed measures, including 59.7 mg/Nm , while the MLV is 400 mg/Nm . In 2013 our activities resulted in 3 3 installation of specially designed silencers on the equipment at critical specific emissions of approximately 88.9 g/ton clinker for Kiln 3 and 192.9 g/ton points, have already been implemented and the rest are foreseen in clinker for Kiln 4, or a total of 33.3 tons and 39.3 tons SOx, respectively. maintenance plan for year 2014-2015. NOx Earth Hour Initiative Combustion at high tempe-ratures Cementarnica Usje AD Skopje for the sixth year in a row is part of this leads to NOx emission. Scientific global action “Earth Day”. This year the event is held under the motto “Use studies have indicated that NOx your power today, turn off the lights, it’s time for planet Earth to shine”. emissions may contribute to acid By turning off the cement mills, USJE joined the global action «Earth Hour». rain and smog. The mills of the company remained one hour without electricity supply in In 2013 USJE’s specific NOx the period from 20:30 to 21:30 hours on Saturday, March 29th. In same time, emissions were 2,719 g/ton the supporters of this action worldwide switched off the power supply in their clinker for Kiln 3 and 2,756 g/ton clinker for Kiln 4, or total 1017.4 and 561.3 tons homes, organizations, companies and factories. NOx respectively per Kiln. The overall NOx emissions were within the limits (MLV) Cementarnica USJE saved 10 MWh of electricity by shutting the set by the local and EU legislation. The average concentration of NOx for Kiln 3 cement mills, which is equal to the monthly electricity consumption of is 1036.5 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 3 and 853.1 mg/Nm3 for Kiln 4, while the MLV is 1300 more than 3.000 households in Skopje. Apart from turning off the cement mg/Nm3. mills, the Company turned off the electricity supply in the other plants as well, where safety measures allow. 27 27 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Within the OPEN DAY visitors have the opportunity to find out more about history and values of USJE and to be a part of an organized tour through the Listening and responding to the concerns of our employees, local plant where they can see the production facilities and learn everything about communities, customers, shareholders, suppliers and other stakeholders has our process of cement production. been a driving force in our efforts at meeting effectively corporate social Respecting our Health & Safety Policy, each Open Day is limited to a responsibility challenges. maximum of 20 visitors and USJE provides appropriate personal protective Respect and support of local communities as well as building a relationship equipment for every visitor. of trust and cooperation is a long-held tradition of USJE beginning over a half a century ago. Target 2011 Results 2013 Target 2015 Our social policy is directed by the “branching out and adding value” Continue Partnering with Schools concept and emphasis is given to sharing know-how, experiences and Project. resources in local community projects and initiatives that create added value. Improve health Project infrastructural Expand H&S initiatives in the local Examples of this practice include local partnership initiatives such as the & safety in the activities in 11 schools worth communities in terms of scope Partnering with Schools Project, the Program for development of professionals local community €30.000 in 2013 and content. through practical training, support of children with special needs and many Branch out to other businesses other endeavours reflecting our CSR strategy and policy based on our corporate values. 58 students – children of In 2013 USJE continued to contribute to local community projects with our employees received financial, human and technical resources. Priority was given to long-term Provide direct scholarships Company open-door policy & community and business engagement programs amounting to € 77.000 in support to the implementation of the project educational 4 students received MBA “Introduction into professions” total. prospects of pupils scholarships Continue with scholarships for and students in university & MBA studies for Open doors for visits and tour of the plant for wider community 135 students visited the Plant the country young people in the country 16 students were interns in the Following TITAN’s policy on transparency in operations, USJE continues its Company endeavours towards developing close relations with the community, thus being and aiming to remain an active member of the society. Our first Open Day organized in 2011 was positively evaluated by all visitors, Diversify corporate Participation of our Increase number of employees with recommendations to become a tradition. engaged in corporate volunteering employees in the initiative Listening and responding to our stakeholders, USJE since 2011 organizes activities with at Food for the street children volunteering initiatives OPEN DAYS in the plant, every last Thursday of the month, during the whole least one new and Easter Bazaar of Zlatan Cooperation with Red Cross year, when everyone interested is able to visit us, to learn about our production initiative Sremec School Macedonia process and our commitment for its permanent improvement through highest standards of operation. 2828 Cementarnica USJE commissioned the Water Treatment Facility and communicated the CSR & Sustainability Report The technological process for producing cement in Cementarnica USJE is dry methodology. This means that water is not consumed during the process of producing cement and also in the water media there are no disposals of any kind form the process. However, in USJE we are making continuous efforts to protect the water as a natural resource. Following our environmental policy, a system for rational usage of waters was established, that includes: Water from the city water supplying network is used for sanitary purposes only More than 90 guests, among which high governmental and municipal The technical waters (for cooling of the equipment) are filtered and officials, Ministry of environment and other important representatives from recycled in closed system and institutions, local communities, NGO’s, business partners and other parties Sewage waters are separated from the atmospheric waters and attended the event of official opening of the water treatment plant. discharged in the city sewage network Atmospheric waters and street spraying waters from the plant are drained and collected in the open canals. In 2013 USJE upgraded the existing system and constructed a Water treatment facility that includes a system for rational utilization of waters and allows complete separation of sewage from atmospheric water.Atmospheric waters from the plant and the water used for streets washing are collected and drained through a specially designed system of channels that are attached to the Treatment plant. In December 2013, USJE officially commissioned its Water Treatment Plant, the first of its kind in Macedonia. At the same event which was organized in the factory yard, the Company CSR and Sustainability Report was communicated and distributed to all present guests and journalists. The new Water Treatment Plant is an investment worth half a million euros and is part of the activities for the implementation of the Operational Plan for harmonization of the A integrated environmental permit. With the implementation of this investment, USJE meets the obligations of the Operating Plan for harmonization of the A integrated environmental permit before the deadline that is in April 2014. This project allows Cementarnica USJE to perform with standards beyond the legal requirements. 29 29 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The development of every prosperous society is based on professional young people who have the specialized knowledge, skills and high work Business – Education Cooperation ethic. But, the responsibility for creating this staff cannot be left only to the education system and schools. Companies need to take their share of the Education is one of the key priorities of USJE’s Corporate Social Policy as burden. Through the implementation of this project for practical training we part of our commitments to add value for everybody, and most of all, for at Cementarnica USJE demonstrate our commitment to accomplishing the the young generations. mission of creating a broader base of technical staff that is necessary, but Cementarnica USJE launches a program for development unfortunately, is becoming deficient in the Republic of Macedonia, said of professionals through practical training Boris Hrisafov, CED of Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje, while marking the start of the project. Cementarnica USJE launched a program for practical training of students from technical high schools of mechanical and electrical vocation located in the City of Skopje. This initiative of Cementarnica USJE was positively recognized and supported by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Center for Vocational Education and Training. At the first day of the program, all students must become thoroughly familiarized and learn to apply measures for occupational safety and health to which Cementarnica USJE gives special importance. The training of and acquisition of specialized working knowledge and skills by young people is one of the practices that are implemented in The project includes students from IV year from the high schools “Mihajlo Cementarnica USJE in different Pupin”, “Vlado Tasevski” and “8 Septemvri” who in the next two months, in ways for a long time. It is an groups of 15 participants, will undergo practical training in the industry. A integral part of the strategy for team of experts from the company, along with school teacher, are in charge corporate social responsibility of of the implementation of the training and that takes place in the mechanical the company, which is in line with and electrical workshop and the production facilities of Cementarnica USJE. the initiative of the United Nations The main objective of the practical training of the high school students for Corporate Social Responsibility, is gaining new technical knowledge and skills by linking theory with which USJE is a member of, the UN practice in the immediate work environment in industrial facilities. Global Compact. 3030 Introduction to industry and occupations Scholarships for MBA postgraduate studies eighth year in a row Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje traditionally supports the education by granting • About 15 high school students from the Center for children without scholarships to young graduates aiming to raise the level of education of the parents “11 Oktomvri” Skopje at the age of 14 to 18 visited our Plant. young people in the country and to enhance their employability. To this effect, • About 70 children in third grade from “Dimitar Makedonski” Primary USJE, eighth year in a row, awarded 4 scholarships for postgraduate studies in School, accompanied by their teachers, were our guests Management & Business Administration at the Faculty of Economics, within “Ss. Cyril & Methodius” University in Skopje. The selection was made through a public • About 50 university and high school students from the Faculty of announcement and the graduates with working experience and highest GPA Technology and Metallurgy, the International Balkan University and were selected. the Secondary Chemical School visited our Company “This opportunity will help us strengthen our knowledge and skills that will, in Through a tour around the production facilities, they were directly turn, enhance our professional experience”, recipients said. introduced to our production process from the very beginning, namely Through this project, during the previous years about 25 students have exploitation of raw materials through the making of cement to its packing continued their education with postgraduate studies in MBA both at the Alba and sales. Moreover, they were also familiarized with the control of the Business School in Athens and at the “Ss. Cyril & Methodius” University in Skopje quality of our products by visiting our Quality Department. with the scholarships granted by USJE. The students also had the opportunity to meet with the employees and the management team and to get directly acquainted with their job, USJE on BEST Job Fair and Career Expo responsibilities, and everyday activities, which would help in improving their USJE took part in the 9th Job Fair at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering understanding of the occupations and job positions in real life and a real and Information Technology organized by BEST Board of European Students of company for easier identification of their potential future professions. Technology in Skopje and the first local “Career Expo 2013” organized by the Youth Council of U.S. Embassy in the Republic of Macedonia. The aim of these events is to assist the employability of the young educated people and to provide practical experience. This concept is closely related with our goal to contribute to the development of young engineers in the country by improving their knowledge and practical skills with internships and scholarships to local and international universities. USJE, being Employer of choice, aims at providing opportunity to the students for a direct contact with our people and to learn more about USJE as well as employment opportunities for the future. 31 31 Student Internship Programs SUPPORT TO COMMUNITY GREENING ENDEAVORS Interns from IAESTE International Student Association of Technical Contribution to environmental protection and raising awareness about Universities the importance of the environmental protection are one of the core values USJE gives opportunities to international students through IAESTE of our Company and essential part of our corporate social responsibility. International Student Association of Technical Universities to make 6-week Planting roses in the schoolyards internship in our Plant.This year we had one student from Croatia attending In April, our management and employees together with the pupils internship in our EDP Department. and the kindergarten children as well as their teachers plant roses in the Internship of local university students schoolyards in the Municipality. USJE accepts students from the universities for their mandatory 1-month internship. This year we had 16 students attending internship in various departments, including production, mechanical and electrical maintenance, finance, sales etc. PARTNERING WITH SCHOOLS PROJECT As part of our voluntary commitment for support of education and educational process in the country as well as our H&S and environmental commitment and know-how,USJE since 2010 supports the public schools in the Municipality. The project is aimed at continuous improvement of the health & safety and environmental conditions in the public schools and kindergartens in the territory of the Local Municipality where our Company operates as well as at raising the awareness of the children on their own health & safety thus cultivating the health & safety culture in the early stages of education. Through the project we make efforts to branch out CSR to our suppliers & contractors and through this CSR Project to encourage more businesses that USJE supported the initiative work in our Municipality for community development. of planting roses in the City The Project covers eight primary schools, one school for children with of Skopje special needs and 2 kindergartens with 4 different buildings each in the The initiative of planting roses Municipality of Kisela Voda with 6650 children studying in the schools and in the City of Skopje is launched 671 employees in the schools covered. as a result of a research study As of the beginning of the project, more than 120.000 euro have been that shows that the white rose invested in-kind and labor and more than 4.000 hours have been spent by is one of the best purifier of the our management and employees and more than 8.000 hours have been ambient air. spent by our contractor’s and suppliers’ staff. 3232 Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje joined this action with donation and planting of 5.000 roses in the Municipality of Kisela Voda. The Company’s management and more than 100 employees planted 760 white roses in front of the Company and along the access road to Serbia Boulevard. USJE has its own nursery, for many years now, where a large number of different seedlings and flowers are being produced and used for planting of the areas within our Plant, but also in the schools, kindergartens and other public areas in the Municipality of Kisela Voda. Last year, we produced and planted more than 26.000 seedlings and flowers. COOPERATION WITH NGO’S USJE supported the national campaign “Macedonia without Waste 2013” for the second time On October 5th, 2013, the second national campaign “Macedonia without waste 2013” took place in almost all municipalities throughout the country. The goal of the campaign is to encourage civil activism and voluntarism as well as to raise awareness and habits of the citizens for proper waste management. The main emphasis is placed on collection USJE once more took part in “Tree Day Plant Your Future” Action and proper disposal of waste on certain locations. The action is part of the national campaign that consists of activities for waste disposal, education On November 27th, 2013 USJE and promotion. With this campaign, Macedonian citizens joined the global joined the “Tree Day Plant Your action “Let’s do it! World 2013” that is officially supported by the European Future” action for the 11th time. Parliament and this year will be ongoing in 107 countries. About fifty of our employees along USJE supported this action by providing to the organizers, Ajde with the management team, through Makedonija NGO and the Municipality of Kisela Voda mobile equipment this volunteering action, planted needed for collection, loading and disposal of the waste, informational trees at a location near the village of posters about the action, sandwiches and water for 220 participants as Mrshevci, Skopje. well as transport and other services. 33 33 SUPPORT TO VULNERABLE GROUPS CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING Summer Educational and Sports Camp for the children USJE employees volunteered in the Food for the Street with impaired hearing Children Donation Initiative As a result of its long-term commitment to supporting educational On April 12th, 2013, the In­ ter­ na­ ti­ projects and being socially responsible company, USJE supported again onal Day for Street Children, USJE em­ the Summer Educational and Sports Camp for 22 children with impaired plo­yees voluntarily joined the Caravan hearing from the Partenie Zografski Education and Rehabilitation Center. for donation of food to the children on stre­et as part of the Campaign“Louder “This camp allows the children with impaired hearing to have fun, To­gether Let’s Donate Food To the and to play sports, as well as to socialize and gain additional education Street Children” organized by several during the summer” Milisav Jovanovski, Teacher at the Partenie Zografski, non-governmental organizations. Education and Rehabilitation Centre, says. A large number of packages Within the summer educational camp, the children with impaired with food were collected by our employees for the street children, who as the hearing have an opportunity to spend time together and to improve their organizers say need to enjoy the same rights as any other children. communication skills. At the same time, through education, they create moral values and manners. This activity is part of the global Campaign “Louder Together” and it is aimed at raising the awareness on ensuring children’s rights. Donation to Civil Association for construction of day-care There are more than 10 million children living on the streets all around the centre for children with special needs in the Municipality world and they all lack the most basic things – food and shelter. USJE employees with this human gesture want to support these children in having their basic USJE supported the initiative of the Civil Association for children with needs fulfilled. special needs, DAMA-EL from Skopje, and the Council of the Municipality of Kisela Voda with donation of materials to this NGO for building a day-care USJE took part in the Easter Bazaar of Zlatan Sremec School centre for children with special needs in the territory of the Municipality. In addition, 100 New Year packages for these children with special needs from The special school, Dr. Zlatan Sremec, organized a fundraising Easter Bazaar. Kisela Voda were donated at the New Year’s party held in the Municipality. During the event, previously donated baked goods, decorations, greeting cards, jewelry, souvenirs and other items were sold. The funds raised from the sale, in agreement with the Parents’ Council of the school, will be used for students’ needs and supplying materials for workshops. This fundraising action was fully supported by our employees that showed great interest in attending the event. About 15 employees devoted their own resources to buy souvenirs made from the creative hands of the children and parents. 3434 UN Global Compact Network participation. USJE remains active member of the leadership of the Global Compact Network The Global Compact is the largest voluntary initiative for social of the community they work in. The UN Global Compact is the largest responsibility of companies around the world and it derived from global voluntary social responsibility initiative, with over 8700 members in the United Nations. This agreement is based on the ten principles 130 countries worldwide. Titan Group, the mother Company of USJE is a that incorporate the areas of human rights, non-abuse of child labor, member of the UN Global Compact since 2002. environment and fight against corruption. Companies-members of The Global Compact Network Macedonia was established in 2004. the UN Global Compact accept these principles and apply them in USJE joined the Network in 2008. their daily operations and thus comprise the driving force of global development, through concrete contribution for the development Target 2011 Results 2013 Target 2015 USJE actively participates & represents the LN as socially responsible company in the country and at international level, among Actively engage in the Global which: Actively build and strengthen the leadership of the Global ComCompact Network Macedonia pact Network Macedonia Active participation in the UNGC Local Network Working Group for Cooperation with Universities Support the implementation of USJE actively supported the Global Compact Network, including: Support the implementation of the initiatives under the Global the initiatives under the Global Compact Network Macedonia Compact Network Macedonia Presentation & dissemination of Company’s CSR principles Dissemination of the human rights related principles among our Actively engage in activities for broader and better understandPromote CSR concept and employees, including training on the law against harassment at ing of the context and the application of the ten universal UNGC UNGC principles in the public the workplace principles in the local context 3636 UN Global Compact Initiative & GRI Disclosures By joining the UN Global Compact in December 2008, USJE embraced at TITAN Group, the mother Company of USJE, is a member or the UN the local country level the ten principles of good corporate management, Global Compact since 2002. which are the foundation of this Compact. Global Compact Principles GRI reference USJE reference (Sections in this Report) Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Health & Safety HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4 human rights Our People Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HR2, HR3 Our People Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the HR5, LA3, LA4 Our People right to collective bargaining Principle 4Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor HR7 Our People Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor HR6 Our People Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Our People occupation HR4,LA10, LA11 Our Footprint Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges EN1 EN30 Environment & Climate Change Our Footprint Principle 8Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1 EN30 Environment & Climate Change Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Our Footprint EN1 EN30 technologies Environment & Climate Change TITAN Group Overview Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery SO2, SO3 CSR & Corporate Governance 37 37 Cementarnica USJE AD Skopje Boris Trajkovski 94, 1000 Skopje Tel. + 389 (2) 2782 500 e-mail: contact@usje.com.mk www.usje.com.mk
