Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5 Our commitments Newrest Group makes a commitment to its clients, employees, collaborators, and the environment on a number of key points: ensuring the quality and hygiene of our products and services, respecting human rights and the working conditions of our employees and collaborators, respecting the environment, and fighting against corruption. To this end, Newrest strictly adheres to international hygiene standards. In order to highlight our active commitment, we also comply with the UN Global Compact. This compact includes 10 key principles derived from: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Hygiene & Quality ‘‘ Hygiene and quality are everyone’s business. Staff assigned to these tasks must prove their thoroughness and organizational skills as well as their teaching skills and decisiveness.’’ Newrest has made food safety and quality a key priority in order to preserve the health of our consumers by guaranteeing healthy food products. This active effort is based on the international HACCP method from the Codex Alimentarius and on the ‘‘Hygiene Package’’, European legislation regarding food hygiene: (EC) Regulation No. 178/2002 and (EC) Regulation No. 852/2004. A NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS well-established quality management system is run by teams of hygiene experts on each site. These teams, trained year-round, ensure a faithful respect of regulatory requirements and define measures to be implemented to ensure food • Non-Conformity Management safety. They provide practical and technical monitoring of traceability, prevent and control sanitation risks, and Any non-conformity detected during self-checks are manage crises. In the field, quality managers work closely investigated systematically. Measures are taken based on with kitchen staff in order to permanently maintain their the results of investigations: they include processing the level of conformity to health standards. non conforming product, which may include disposal, as well as implementing corrective actions to avoid a recurMost production units are ISO 9001 or ISO 22000 certiring problem. Detailed crisis management procedures are fied. Newrest uses its expertise to apply this certification to all units. A food safety guide, specially developed by • Monitoring laid out by Newrest and perfected by our teams. They are activated in the event of a food alert and guarantee a rapid Newrest and meeting regulatory requirements, contains Self-checks are implemented at every stage of production response to protect our consumers. all work instructions, procedures, and records carried out to ensure that all employees respect control and monitoduring the entire production process. It includes control ring measures. Conducting audits and microbiological measures for managing biological, physical and chemical analyses allows us to check the level of control that our • Service Quality hazards commonly found in catering. process has achieved, in order to preserve the consuThis is defined by our ability to respect the client’s specimer’s health. Additionally, regular external audits are fications, communicate the potential substitutions, antici• Traceability conducted. Thus, our manufacturing process is evaluated pate difficulties, and provide effective solutions to resby external organizations to guarantee objectiveness and pond to exceptional situations. In a very competitive The application of strict traceability regulations allows us transparency with regard to production and quality market, the quality of service plays a major role in custo follow each food product incorporated in our recipes management. tomer loyalty. along the entire production chain: from the supplier to the consumer, from forklift to fork. It begins with quality management teams selecting and referencing the best • The Forward low Principle • Human Resources suppliers. Added to this is a systematic and rigorous Newrest establishments were designed to rigorously resHygiene and quality are everyone’s business. Staff control of raw material reception. In order to maintain pect the forward flow principle: no ingredient used in a assigned to these tasks must prove their thoroughness high standards, the supplier follow-up includes annual recipe can move backwards in the production process, and organizational skills as well as their teaching skills visits to their establishments and regular microbiological from merchandise delivery to customer consumption. and decisiveness. They must have unfailing integrity and analyses of the raw materials delivered to each of our This hygiene rule is essential for avoiding crossobjectivity as they are often confronted with situations sites. contamination. where client and supplier interests clash. 4 5 Newrest’s involvement in local communities ‘‘ Newrest favours menus that promote seasonal products in order to reduce the use of imported products. Similarly, local suppliers are preferred (...).’’ 1. Local 2. Local • Local procurement and Fondation Newrest Employment Procurement In Bolivia, close to 193 tonnes of products totalling 137’700 were purchased from producers located close to Newrest Group favours menus that promote seasonal proThe Group strongly favours the hiring of local populathe San Cristobal mine. ducts in order to reduce the use of imported products. tions in the countries in which we operate. We recruit 100 99 % Similarly, local suppliers are preferred if the traceability our personnel from communities close to our opera98 % 98 % and quality of their products comply with the criteria the tions, in particular at the mines we manage in South and 98 Product Weight Amount Group has defined. This limits our environmental impact Percentage of nationals Central America. (in tonnes) (€) 96 by reducing the transportation and pollution they create, NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS while boosting the local economy. We prohibit the use of Quinoa 4,8 22’000 America Division 94 93 % endangered species by our nutritionists, chefs and other catering managers. Potatoes 140 56’000 • Focus on local 92 Onions 45 56’000 employment America Division Llama meat 1,2 2’500 90 Brazil Mexico Bolivia Panama • Family farm project in Brazil Lettuce and herbs 1,7 1’200 Total 192,7 t 137’700 € Personnel hired from communities In the Corumbá region, Newrest Brazil has set up a project to develop family-based farming, which we presented to our clients in May 2013. A partnership was entered into 85 with the Federal University of Mato Grosso for the deveMexico 80 83 % lopment of lettuce and vegetable production for our ope• Use of local products in menus in French Polynesia close to our operations rations in the region. On Mr Adilson’s family farm, proPanama 75 cesses related to logistics, food safety and management Brazil Newrest Polynesia signed a partnership agreement with were put in place (such as the implementation of formal 70 the Ministries of Health, Agriculture and Sports, as well as invoicing, without which we would not have been able to 65 65 % work with the farm). secondary schools, agricultural federations and the Goût Bolivia and Terroir association regarding the membership of 60 Faa’a’s and Papara’s central kitchens in the pilot instituBolivia Panama tion programme. This programme targets an increase in the quantity and variety of agricultural products produced locally in the preparation of meals for schools. Farmers undertake to Europe Division adopt the sustainable use of fertilizers and pesticides, and to analyse their production regularly in order to The 112 employees who report to headquarters both ensure that local products are healthy. on-site employees and expatriates represent 12 nationaIn the framework of training for kitchen chefs in the pilot lities. The average age is 39, and 20,5% of our employees institutions, our teams contribute to creating recipes that are women. Most expatriates are men. use locally-produced ingredients such as taro, yams and bananas to promote the development of local agriculture. 6 7 NE WRE S T’S IN VOLV EMENT IN LO C A L COMMUNITIE S Europe Division • Global approach in Amsterdam In the Netherlands, Newrest takes its responsibilities seriously and produces meals as sustainably as possible. With this in mind, the products purchased are local, seasonal and, if possible, organic. Packaging has less impact on the environment. Along the same lines, for each litre of water sold by Newrest, five cents are donated to EARTH Concept, which finances various water-related projects. For the period running between October 2012 and September 2013, 84’000 litres of water were sold and €4’228 were donated NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS to EARTH Concept. Southern Africa Division • Integrated procurement in South Africa At dnata Newrest, the SASSI (Southern African Sustainable Seafood Initiative) guide is used as a reference and only fish on the green list is used. This initiative was created by the WWF’s Green Trust to preserve the oceans’ ecosystems. Other initiatives have also been implemented: Furthermore, local employees are systematically involved in our approach to ensure that raised awareness on the Central & Western → The fruit juices purchased are exclusively need to protect this environment reaps benefits over the long term. Africa Division local, ideally from local farmers. • Restructuring in Gabon → Cans, glass, paper and cooking • Mostly local purchases Our purchasing and logistics department was restrucoil are recycled. in Uganda tured, and the yard re-planned to facilitate recent imports of products. At the same time, we are extending our local Newrest UIS has committed to purchasing local raw mate→ An essential aspect of our production rials to the greatest extent possible. Today, they represent procurement policy in order to diversify our suppliers, policy is compliance with local, national while contributing our expertise on the quality and mana70% of purchases. Additionally, studies on agricultural and international regulations on waste gement of products. production in the Lake Albert region have allowed us to management, water conservation, include true local content in invitations to tender in which The next pages describe initiatives in Congo and Niger on and air, land and noise pollution. we have participated. local procurement. 8 9 NE WRE S T’S IN VOLV EMENT IN LO C A L COMMUNITIE S NEWREST CONGO NEWREST NIGER & the poultry cooperative Areva & The Sahelian Agro-contact Tropical Gardens Constantly seeking to satisfy its clients to the greatest in Arlit extent possible, Newrest Congo has been working for a As part of its Nigerien operations on the sites of its client, NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS number of months on a poultry project headed by Wilfried Areva, Newrest Niger continued its sustainable developKoutiki (or simply Willy ), a rural development engineer ment projects this year. Areva and Newrest, in partnership who studied at the University of Brazzaville and manages with the Urban Community of Arlit, signed a memoranthe Tchibamba Agro-Contact cooperative. dum of understanding with Jardins Tropicaux Sahéliens * A young subsidiary that opened in mid-2012, Newrest for the financing of a pilot vegetable production project. Congo immediately sought out local resources and undertook to purchase Willy’s production and encourage comThis project is based on the implementation of innovative mercial relations. With this in mind, we pay for our purvegetable-growing techniques called Jardin Tropical Améchases in a shorter period than we do with our other lioré ( JTA ) at the women’s site , which covers a surface suppliers, and we have an amicable arrangement in terms of one hectare. It follows from an initial experiment of pricing. conducted by Areva last year. A Nigerien agronomist supervised activities, which, in eight months, validated ‘‘ these techniques with a view to developing them on a I’ve been working with Newrest since broader scale on other Arlit and Imouraren sites. early 2013 and am happy about our collaboration: I have a trustworthy Although traditional vegetable-growing techniques do not partner that is involved and has allow for production during the hot weather season helped me develop my project, and our (March to July), JTA allowed some 40 women in the Group commercial relationship is exemplary. to cultivate vegetables throughout the year (cabbages, My agreement with Newrest Congo has carrots, lettuces, zucchinis, etc.), with low water allowed me to increase my business by adding 800 chicks to my brood last consumption. Newrest purchases 90% of production for a October. I will be able to increase my total amount of €80K, the rest being sold on the market or production to three boxes per day.’’ consumed directly by the families. This joint Areva/Newrest financing in a total amount of Today, the flock is composed of 435 hens that lay approximately 360 eggs per day, all of 60’000 illustrates Newrest’s commitment to continue to 360 which are purchased by Newrest, for a monthly total of 1.1 million FCFA (€1’600). Having involve neighbouring populations in its projects, while completed poultry studies, Willy raises chicks from a very early age and personally monitors adopting a global development structure with its clients their health to prevent illnesses and other epidemics. The outcome of this project is very and with local authorities. positive. This association is highly motivating for Newrest’s teams, as Venance Mampouya, EGGS PER DAY Purchasing Manager, explained: I’m happy to be working with Wilfried, because I can offer Phase 3 of the project deployment on a broader scale on our clients fresh quality eggs. Our clients’ satisfaction is very important in our work. the Arlit and Imouraren sites is currently being studied. 10 * Sahelian Tropical Gardens 11 Respect for our employees ‘‘ As human resources are our greatest asset, it is fundamental for everyone to benefit from appropriate, continuous training so they can perform their tasks as efficiently and safely as possible.’’ 1. Training Central & Western Our employees are trained in catering and hotel services. Africa Division As human resources are our greatest asset, it is fundamental for everyone to benefit from appropriate, conti• Niger nuous training so they can perform their tasks as effiThe second event, which takes place within the same Thanks to our partnership with the Hôtel Ecole Avenida in ciently and safely as possible. hotel school, is more targeted and is only intended for Lomé, Togo, trainers attended our operation sites at Arlit Training is often conducted internally, but Newrest Group future Bac Pro and BTS graduates in hotel services and Imouraren to provide training on hotel services, catealso regularly enters into partnerships with training instiprogrammes. This is also a tool to help students gain NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS ring and table service. tutions or hotel schools to ensure the training provided experience with job interviews. perfectly matches our needs and is performed by profesThese two events are first and foremost a useful commu→ Two training sessions took place: sionals in our business sectors. nication tool for the Group in Polynesia, allowing us to Restaurant Hotel ≈1800 present our company, and the catering and inflight ser↓ 1.1 PARTNERSHIP vices business. These events draw the media more and more. Students future job-seekers and corporate manaService Training at Arlit Cleaning & Hygiene Training INDIVIDUALS TR AINED ALL AROUND THE WORLD WITH SCHOOLS gers follow and anticipate these events. We very rapidly meet up with these students again in the private and Period 5 weeks 5 weeks America Division public sectors in other words, in the local economic Attendees 40 60 community. The first of Newrest’s five strategic • Journées Forum de l’Emploi * These events do not directly target recruitment, as Between October and December 2013, 2 waiters took principles for future years is... Newrest’s opportunities in terms of hiring in the country in French Polynesia are rather limited. But they are a true tool to allow young restaurant supervisor training (restaurant, bar and banMen and women at the heart of our future: quet service) over a three-month period in Lomé. Newrest Polynesia is actively involved in the Journées graduates from higher education to prepare for their Forum de l’Emploi (employment forum days) organized future jobs and career. → Effective recruitment every year at the University of French Polynesia or the Few companies in this region contribute so actively, with hotel school by interviewing students and participating in the exception of major luxury hotel groups present in → Control over our values and training conferences (presentation of Newrest Group). Polynesia. The first event mainly allows students to meet the major → Internal promotions as a priority companies in French Polynesia and find internships, as → Skill retention well as to discover the interview process. Southern Africa Division → Proven, balanced skills in our countries • Partnership with the Jinja Hotel school in Uganda → Development of the entrepreneurial spirit Newrest UIS has entered into a partnership with the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute of Jinja: 6 students are Therefore men and women are at the interns in the company for three months every summer. heart of the Group’s concerns. They are They are trained in catering and can therefore aspire to a the very essence of Newrest’s DNA. job in the local hotel industry at the end of their internship. 12 * Employment Forum Days 13 RE SPEC T FOR OUR EMPLOY EE S Headquarters • Mexico Europe Division 1.2 EMPLOYEE TRAINING The training plan is prepared every year based on the Below are a few examples of the training This year... requirements of operations and the lack of personnel in • Croatia employees in Newrest’s subsidiaries For the 2013-14 some positions. This year, 150 hours of training were proIn the spring of 2013, 2 Newrest Dubrovnik chefs took traithroughout the world have received. 33 INDIVIDUAL S fiscal year, a training plan will be finalized vided and all employees took 10 hours of risk prevention training. ning from VIP chefs at Private Catering, a subsidiary of the Newrest Group, in Nice, France. The experience gained Group ↓ and the training over these 120 hours of training (covering two weeks) was then shared with the teams in Croatia: 56% of additional 150 h All the managers who work in the Group’s subsidiaries are Took objective revenue were observed on VIP flights out of Dubrovnik. 407 Similarly, the entire team at the Dubrovnik unit took traitrained specifically for their position for a week in Toulouse h for personnel ning on HACCP, health and safety, and all the Group’s HSE upon arriving in the Group: is 35%. OF TR AINING OF TR AINING quality rules and procedures were put in place. ON DIFFERENT → Graphics charter and communication TOPIC S • Austria NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS for everyone → The chart below sets out the training provided Number Number of to our employees in the past fiscal year: → Reporting processes and financial of training individuals (the Italian and German classes are part of the prostandards for financial staff Topic hours trained gramme to support integration launched this year for the cleaning personnel on trains) → Invitations to tender and Group standards Languages 215 10 for sales staff Finance 127 14 → Quality manual and standards IT 7 1 Topic Position Number Number of for HSE staff, etc. of training individuals Human Resources 50 7 hours trained Catering 8 1 General training Train chefs 15’000 30 America Division Total 407 33 Italian classes Cleaning personnel 2’200 65 German classes Cleaning personnel 2’200 10 • Panama The percentage of All employees receive training related to occupational health and safety at the time of induction. employees trained over the past four years has ↑ 32% • Reunion Island increased from 5% in OF EMPLOYEES Throughout the year, training on hygiene, quality and safety In October 2013, 314 training toolboxes were handed out 2010 to 32% in 2013 TR AINED IN 2013 is provided to our various employees. on the mining site we operate, which equals more than 10 our objective was training sessions of approximately five minutes per day initially 25%. offered to all employees on site, i.e. a total of approxima↑ 35 % Topic Position Number Number of tely 50 training hours. ↑ 32 % of training individuals Again in October, 343 individuals (there are 322 30 hours trained employees on site) took 1’060 hours of training on topics 25 % Hygiene & quality All personnel 14 19 % 98 as diverse as personal hygiene, fire prevention, work sta20 tion risks, safety notices for cleaning products, and burns. 15 % Civil aviation department All personnel 56 14 10 Ground handling/driving Ground crew 9 3 5% Total 163 31 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 14 15 RE SPEC T FOR OUR EMPLOY EE S North Africa Division Southern Africa • Mauritania • South Africa • Ghana As the catering sector is a specialized catering division, All employees are trained, and this is key to helping us Continuous training of employees has been implewe train all of our personnel on HACCP methods. They achieve the objectives defined in terms of occupational mented. Between October 2012 and September 2013, also receive ground training before starting to work at safety and the quality delivered to our clients. 2’424 hours of training were provided. dnata Newrest. All new employees are trained for an average period of five hours. • Madagascar All employees took training on food hygiene and safety Topic Position Number Number of 2’424 h English classes were provided to our personnel thanks consisting of approximately eight hours. of training individuals to the presence of a teacher in our teams. Since the hours trained During fiscal 2012/13, 229 employees were trained. This launch of the Ambatovy contract in December 2012, a NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS OF TR AINING allowed for 38 employees to access supervisor positions training plan for our personnel has been implemented, → Inventory management IN MAURITANIA and one was promoted to manager in our company. targeting skill development and also to identify existing → Menu management Camp Boss 720 2 skill sets for the future of our company. Training on Asian → Personnel management cuisine, and administrative and management training → HSE have already been provided. A professional butcher was 291 → Accounting also hired for a two-month period to provide internal → Secretarial services Accounting Assistant 320 1 training to our employees, and also to train our local → Cash management suppliers on good food hygiene and safety practices. → Inventory management TRAINED → Logistics Inventory Assistant 620 2 → Below is the list of training provided between IN MADAGASCAR → Order management December 2012 and October 2013: → Hygiene All personnel 744 42 → Safety Topic Number of Number of Number of Total 2’424 47 training hours individuals hours of training provided trained per person English classes 840 237 120 Central & Western Africa French classes 20 6 20 Malagasy classes 12 2 12 • Gabon Japanese cuisine 12 3 12 We recruited a trainer to provide catering training on Thai/Filipino cuisine 12 5 12 site. The objective is for this trainer to share his Cleaning service 12 14 12 knowledge and experience with the 300 new Gabonese In 2013 300 employees we hired in 2013 further to the increase in Laundry service 12 8 12 our business activity. ↓ Butchery 120 12 10 Anti-corruption training 4 4 2 NEW GABONESE ...WERE TR AINED EMPLOYEES... FOR C ATERING Total 1’044 291 212 16 17 RE SPEC T FOR OUR EMPLOY EE S 4. Employees’ welfare 3. Examples A s Newrest Group's core business is catering, most employees are provided of Initiatives: with their meals during their working time. Similarly, when they work on remote sites, accommodation is arranged on site under the same conditions Employee as those who live there. of the Month Canada Panama Starting in January The personnel working The employee of the month initiative 2014 and further to at the mine benefits has been put in place on many production America ↓ a collective agreement being signed in May 2013, from accommodation and meals, as well as sites. Below is an example from Canada, all employees will enjoy transportation from NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS where Newrest has two inflight catering the benefit of meals Penonomé to the site at their work location. of operations. production units. America Division Central South Africa 2. Disabled • Canada & Western Southern ↓ dnata Newrest promotes Workers The objective of this initiative is to reward the commitAfrica Africa the well-being of its employees within the company and Europe Division ment and personal investment of employees. It has existed in Canada since 1 January 2013. The employee of the month is selected based on employee ↓ provides meals at no cost to employees working at the different production sites. • AMgroup commitment. It rewards an employee who stands out through behaviour, work, commitment, DNA, etc. The Guinea Niger decision is made at a monthly Executive Committee meeCGA Newrest provides All employees working Zambia In the Netherlands, Newrest works with AMgroup, which breakfast and lunch for on the sites are entitled ting at which time department heads discuss their its employees. to their meals. The 100 employees offers work to the disabled. Every day, two individuals who who work at the Lusaka report to AMgroup clean the offices, and the daily producemployees. After round-table discussions, a collective unit are provided with tion of dry product inventory is managed by four individecision is made by way of voting. meals at their work duals on the Hoofdorp site. The centre's director then meets with the employee to tell location and, further him or her about the award and hand over a small diploma. to negotiations, the North Africa Division Europe A copy of this diploma is displayed on-site for one month. cleaning subcontractor also provides meals for its employees on • Partnership our production site. with the Sidi Thabet farm In Tunisia, Newrest sponsors this farm, specialized in the ↓ insertion of the disabled. It offers work mainly to disabled West Indies Ghana individuals from needy families who live close to the farm. All of Newrest's We allow our employees employees in Ghana In order to grow this activity beyond this partnership, to enjoy meals that are are served a meal prepared specifically per day and a snack Newrest is studying the potential integration of a young for them on site. intern into one of our operations in Tunisia. during their break. 18 19 RE SPEC T FOR OUR EMPLOY EE S 5. Collective Bargaining Newrest Group guarantees respect for everyone's dignity and privacy, as well as the freedom of association. In many countries, annual collective bargaining allows employees to accede to better working conditions. A few examples of these negotiations are set out below. America Division NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS • Canada Panama ↓ A collective agreement was signed on 1 May 2013, which NEW COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT provides for the creation of a number of committees such as the working conditions committees and the arbitration committee. Europe Division A collective agreement was drafted with the workers' unions. • Austria The main advances are as follows: An agreement between management and the unions includes a sixth week of paid leave. Southern Africa Division → Creation of a daily indemnity for maternity leave or the death of a family member North Africa Division • Ghana Relations between employees, their unions and manage→ Implementation of a seniority bonus • Guinea ment are very good. The collective agreement has been negotiated and is in effect for two years. → Education bursaries A health insurance agreement has been entered into directly with a polyclinic and pharmacy for employees and • Uganda → Skill retention their families. CGA Newrest's contribution totals 80%. Newrest's employees in Uganda benefit from a cooperative system. The company withholds a percentage of the → Proven, balanced skills in our countries salaries of employees who want to join the system. The amount to be deducted is notified by the cooperative's → Gift distribution at Christmas executive board. The company pays this amount every month into the account of the employees' cooperative. These benefits are true advances for The employees elect an executive board that manages the employees, and few companies in Panama association's account either through loans to the coopeoffer similar conditions to their employees. rative's members, or land or other investments, and revenue is distributed annually. 20 21 RE SPEC T FOR OUR EMPLOY EE S 6. Occupational America Division 22000:2005 certification of our Minera San Cristobal opeSafety • Mexico No accident or incident this year as a result of the work rations. On the basis of this training, the suppliers can in turn seek certification under Bolivian sanitary standards, such as SENASAG, which relates to organoleptic quality, performed, whether in terms of continuous improvement production capacity, production hygiene standards and 6.1 IN OUR BUSINESS of the facilities or the risk prevention training provided the calibration of products, for example. UNITS per work station to each employee. This involves the following suppliers: Group Europe Division Whether through training or workplace organization, • Reunion Island → Agroinsa San Augustin NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS Newrest is committed to ensuring that its employees work Newrest Group's statistics show that, since 2004, the In 2013, we received health accreditation with the impleunder the best conditions possible. date safety statistics were launched, only one accident mentation and application of HACCP rules in the catering → Fundacion San Cristobal occurred (in 2010). unit and retail business. Along the same lines, ISO, HACCP or OHSAS certification of our operations guarantees quality and risk-free services Signage has been deployed on all operation sites and → Aprakuk for our clients. All of our personnel obviously receive pertranslated into nine languages to date. Bilingual versions Southern Africa sonal protective equipment specific to their work station. also exist. This signage, thanks to a character, is a remin• South Africa → Desarrollo acuático criadero They are trained on the use of this equipment and potender of the various hygiene and safety points to be comde truchas Manquiri tial risks if they fail to wear the PPE. plied with to ensure production is safe. The best way for dnata Newrest to avoid accidents is to put very strict policies in place drawn from our inflight → Procabol catering experience, and to focus on training for those who do not comply with health and safety rules. 6.2 AT OUR SUPPLIERS & SUBCONTRACTORS The rules we impose on ourselves in terms of quality also apply to our suppliers, as the quality of the end product and the perception of our clients are in play. America Division • Bolivia Training was provided to create a culture of continuous improvement among local suppliers in order to raise their standard of quality and certification to a satisfactory level for their products. The goal is for Newrest Bolivia to purchase a portion of their production while complying with standards that correspond to the ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 22 23 ‘‘ Since the Group’s earliest days, we have been committed to a paper Respect for reduction policy. When paper the Environment copies cannot be avoided, we promote digital communication while using eco-friendly materials (...)’’ Today more than ever, protecting the environment is an essential concern Headquarters' Efforts shared by all Newrest Group employees. This concern is present from the time our projects are put in place and continues Since 2011 SAVE CO2 throughout the entire operating process. LESS 101t 1. Reduction + EMPLOYEES PRINTING PAPER use ↓ = 225t NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS of our impact on the environment PAPER −15% → 1.1 A FEW INITIATIVES INK MORE SCREENS = AMONG MANY C M Y N → Non-toxic ink → 70% Rec ycled x3 • Reduction of printing → 100% Degradable → 100% Rec yclable and its impact at 396 Paris kg Tehran CO 2 the Group's headquarters OF CO 2 SAVED = ≈ Since the Group’s earliest days, we have been committed Europe Division WITH THE ANNUAL 5.000 km to a paper reduction policy. When paper copies cannot be REPORT 2011/12 BY C AR avoided, we promote digital communication while using • Green electricity in Spain eco-friendly materials: since July 2012, any printing at The electricity purchased at the Malaga production unit is supheadquarters uses 70% recycled /100% recyclable paper. plied by a provider that offers electricity from a 100% renewThe ink used in non-toxic and 100% degradable. able source. The use of this paper to print the 2011/12 annual report allow for savings of 396 kg of CO2, which is the equivalent North Africa Division of 4’952 km of vehicle consumption. • Example of plastic bags For next year, our forecasts are even more encouraging: we plan on reducing the quantity of printed copies by 15% systematically printed on recycled paper. We are looking in Mauritania through the installation of screens and awareness-raising at savings of approximately 101 tonnes of CO2, which is At the offshore units we operate, biodegradable garbage bags sessions with our employees and partners. In parallel, all equivalent to 225 tonnes of wood and three trips around have been introduced. On land sites, plastic bags have been communication materials for our clients will be the world by car. banned and replaced by paper bags. 24 25 RE SPEC T FOR THE EN V IRONMENT 1.2 RECYCLING & REUSE 1.3 EXAMPLE OF Limiting the product of waste is not enough. We need to THE SWISS APPROACH think about how this waste can be recycled and/or reused. On remote sites, organic waste that can be comEnvironmental posted is buried and is then used as fertilizer for plants and garden areas.In all the countries in which we operate, protection & nutrition we ensure that our waste is sorted and processed through → Subject to our clients' acceptance, we eliminate a re-treatment chain. This limits the environmental impact of Waste is sorted in all of our restaurants as follows: aluminium cans from our sites and replace them our operations. → dump truck collection services, with onboard weighing, with PET packaging. for waste that can be incinerated and paperboard. This → We favour a reduction in disposable cups through America Division waste management method provides greater traceability of the waste and allows for invoicing by tonne and not by the implementation of a mug policy. → Disposable items supplied are all low in CO2 emissions • Waste management container, or 100% recyclable. NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS → shared collection, for waste such as washings, glass, plan in Mexico vegetable oil, Nespresso capsules, tinplate, porcelain, As a service provider at Cancun airport, Newrest is aluminium cans, PET and wooden pallets. In this required by the airport authorities to implement a waste framework, the different types of waste collected are recycling programme, as this authority audits our facilities grouped together (less trips = less fuel) in a crane truck Fourchette Verte label on a regular basis. To achieve this goal, we train our perand taken to an accredited outlet. In concrete terms, the Fourchette Verte label sonnel on waste management, which is set out in detail in is an action seeking to promote good health by: a plan that includes the various ways we can reduce our On its operation sties, Newrest Canonica is committed to → Encouraging the population to adopt a healthy diet waste. We thereby participate in protecting the environthe environment: ment in which we work. → With our client's agreement, we apply a different price → Proposing a balanced diet, which is consumed for hot drinks based on whether the cup is disposable or in a healthy (100% smoke-free spaces) and pleasant Europe Divison in china, so as to minimize the use of disposable cups. → The coffee grounds from the coffee machines (hygienic, waste-sorting) environment • Cardboard recycling in are recovered to make compost. → Recyclable paper is used for printing. → Allowing the consumption of non-alcohol beverages at a preferential price Martinique and Guadeloupe In Pointe-à-Pitre and Fort-de-France, Newrest has started North Africa Division → We guarantee that 80% of our suppliers are local so as to limit the transportation of merchandise. → Raising awareness in terms of diet and health both to sort its waste and promote the eco-friendly cardboard • Recycling of used oil in Tunisia → According to our clients' different specifications, we use fair trade, Région Terre Avenir or organic for the population (more specifically those who eat outside of their homes) and catering professionals recycling sector. Thanks to this sorting, close to 20 tonnes Used oil is systematically collected and reprocessed by a of cardboard are recycled per year further to a partnership products, which we indicate on our menus for our users. local organization. This year, 15’000 litres were transforwith a local company. → We offer our clients an opportunity to procure → Contributing to the reduction in the occurrence med into bio-fuel. → → Nordic Swan and Fleur Européenne-type of risk factors for chronic diseases that are influenced by dietary habits • Eco-reflex in Réunion Southern Africa Division eco-label detergents, → → Organic and/or fair trade coffee, The protection of the environment is a daily concern in and Rainforest Alliance tea. For this reason: this subsidiary, and the entire team at the Saint-Denis air• Selective sorting → All of the listed suppliers must comply with → The sites are certified Fourchette Verte within port has adopted quality and ethical values. This requires training and helping our employees adopt an eco-reflex . at the Ambatovy site specifications that cover eco-labelled products the three months that follow their inauguration. and ISO-type certification. It also requires raising our clients' awareness, for example Newrest Madagascar has implemented waste manage→ In partnership with the label, we organize events by providing selective sorting containers on our Caffé ment procedures and therefore sorts cardboard, food in our restaurants to raise our clients' awareness Lindo site or low-energy consumption equipment with waste, used oil and plastic. on these issues (quizzes, prizes, etc.). lights that are mainly LED. 26 27 RE SPEC T FOR THE EN V IRONMENT 2. Environmental Training America Division • Panama Due to the geographic location of the mine in the heart of the NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS Panamanian virgin forest, all employees are trained on recycling and endangered species located in the zone of operations. 3. Certifications The outcome of this entire policy focused on environmental protection is ISO 14001:2004 certification, which rewards good environmental practices: waste reduction, recycling, environmental impact, reduction of water and electricity consumption, travel management, etc. A major certification campaign for Newrest’s operations throughout the world was launched with the creation of a HSE Quality unit at headquarters. → A summary table of upcoming certifications is set out below: Certification Number Number TOTAL of countries of countries to be certified certified in 2014 ISO 9001:2008 9 16 25 ISO 22000:2005 6 10 16 ISO 14001:2004 4 2 6 HACCP 3 3 6 OHSAS 18001 3 1 4 28 29 ‘‘ Newrest Group employees Fighting are formally prohibited from giving Corruption gifts or money to clients or officials in order to win contracts.’’ America Division 1. Corruption • Mexico Despite the high level of corruption in the country, Group Newrest's operations in Cancun are transparent: no member of our personnel has accepted bribes from suppliers or public authorities. Regardless of which country is involved, Newrest Group employees must ensure commercial relations are based on transparency and honesty. This requirement also Europe Division NEWREST ACTIVITY REPORT 2012/13 OUR COMMITMENTS applies to our suppliers and clients; unfair competition is not acceptable. • The Netherlands We believe in this adage: You reap what you sow . This is Newrest Group employees are formally prohibited from a key element in our corporate policies whether regarding giving gifts or money to clients or officials in order to win management or production. Transparency and honesty contracts. Additionally, Newrest personnel refuse any gift are key tools to achieve this goal. offered by suppliers that are accredited or in the accreditation process in order to obtain a contact or lower prices. • Switzerland All forms of pressure or bribery towards sanitation insNo new year's gift is accepted from any supplier and their pection personnel in order to have them ignore certain invitations to any type of event are politely declined. failures to meet hygiene standards is unacceptable. All these rules apply regardless of the country, whether Southern Africa Division the corruption is common or not. • South Africa Internally, a transparency and anti-favouritism policy has The Newrest Group has implemented strict procedures to been put in place. dnata Newrest maintains this transpaidentify at-risk persons (purchasing managers, sales rency thanks to an open door policy that allows everyone managers). Employees are monitored by country manato share their fears or provide information on practices gers, zone managers, and internal auditors, who control that do not comply with the anti-corruption policy. the figures for each country every month and verify procedures during their regular visits to the different countries. • Madagascar Four individuals have been trained to become internal traiA global anti-corruption policy was drafted and translated ners on anti-corruption rules and procedures. into the three main working languages. • Ghana A Zero Tolerance policy has been implemented related to corruption and applies to all parties involved. 30 31 Audited financial statements are provided separately to this activity report EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT OFFICE NEWREST 61 boulevard Carnot • 31000 Toulouse – France Phone: +33 5 62 89 39 88 / Fax: +34 5 62 89 39 70 COMMUNICATION NEWREST Dominique Pilatte – Communication Director 61 boulevard Carnot • 31000 Toulouse – France Phone: +33 5 62 89 39 79 / Fax: +34 5 62 89 39 70 INVESTORS RELATIONS NEWREST Matthieu Jeandel – Vice President Finance Service 61 boulevard Carnot • 31000 Toulouse – France Phone: +33 5 62 89 39 87 / Fax: +34 5 62 89 39 70 www.newrest.eu
