chao Catalogue About Happy Forest 1. Company profile......................................................................02 2. Corporate culture...................................................................02 3. Team building..........................................................................04 Statement to support the 04 Global Compact Work report 1、Summary...................................................................................05 2、Situation introduction...........................................................06 Human rights...............................................................................................06 Labor standards........................................................................................09 The environment......................................................................................11 Anti-corruption............................................................................................12 Support the objectives and topics of the United..............18 01 I. About Happy Forest 1、Company profile Happy Forest International Holdings Group Co.,Ltd was founded in Hong Kong, is a comprehensive group company providing professional service in M&A worldwide. It is dedicated to the integration of high-end economic resources and its investment mainly concentrates on energy resources, high-end hotel management, public relations, media, conferences and exhibitions, travailing etc. We expect win-win cooperation from all sides. 2、Corporate Culture A.Mission (1)Following the UNESCO Universal Declaration Cultural Diversity, we are devoted to promoting the development of cultural diversity. By facilitating the integration and participation of people with various cultural backgrounds, we expect to reduce even eliminate the barriers in M&A caused by cultural differences. (2)Promote international exchanges and cooperation among charities of different countries, joint all forces of international community to face the problems and disasters human encounter together. (3)Abide by the agreement and jointly resist commercial frauds and other immoral commercial behaviors. B.Value (1)Be glad to help others (2)Help others to achieve their goals 02 C.Guidelines (1)Abide by the laws and international conventions (2)No violation to the customs and ethics (3)Do no harm to national feelings and friendship D.Concept Do everything to the full and be our best self E.Spirit of Enterprise Happy everyday！Clever everyday！Beautiful everyday！ 3、Team building. We are an international team with average age of less than thirty years old, every employee looks like a thriving tree, they are strong, smart and well educated, familiar with international business rules and the political ecology, and can simultaneously use two or more languages at work. Our company is fragrant, the flowers bloom throughout the year, the greenness is everywhere, the spring touches everywhere. So we call ourselves Happy Forest. We are highly efficient, rigorous and serious, looking forward to becoming “the wind under your wings”… We believe that ：Good business is the best art II. Statement to support the Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Happy Forest International Holdings Group Co.,Ltd supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, 03 labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Happy Forest International Holdings Group Co.,Ltd will make a clear statement of this commitment to our employees, stakeholders, customers and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company ’ s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within two year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Chairman and CEO of Happy Forest International Holdings Group Co.,Ltd : November 7, 2014 04 III.Work report Time:August 9, 2013 to November 7, 2014 1. Summary Happy Forest Group has incorporated the Ten Principles into its operations and strategy since it joined the United Nations Global Compact on August 9, 2013. From then on we initially produced a consciousness of corporate citizenship for which a lot of work has been taken. Thus the Company's business development, credibility and reputation have been significantly improved, reaching the unexpected height. Our team is also more prosperous, and consciously reached the world-class standard in the work efficiency and quality. However, it was not easy to become a better corporate citizen. This was the first year we joined, and it was indeed difficult for us to go, and sometimes we even felt that we could not go further. However, we also found that it brought not only many challenges, but also an unprecedented and wonderful opportunity, our risks reduced a lot, and did things more conveniently and smoothly. The Company's brand and values were rapidly redoubled. We created a very favorable environment for development by conducting the responsible business practices with the implementation of the Ten Principles. We fully recognized that the United Nations Global Compact is an excellent platform, so we will realize the Company's commitment with more efforts in the new year and make contributions to a more inclusive and stable global market. 05 Chairman and CEO of Happy Forest International Holdings Group Co.,Ltd: 2.Situation introduction Part I Human rights (1) Companies should respect and uphold internationally recognized human rights; (2) Does not guarantee human rights abuses; 06 We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and do not participate in a variety of matters that the human rights are hindered. 1. Respect for human rights and prevention of violations of human rights are being put on the first important position. Not only the management is required to respect the general employees, but also the employees and employees as well as personnel in different positions are required to respect each other. If violation is found, the employer violates slightly will be demoted in rank and had his salary cut, while the employer violates seriously will be dismissed immediately. For those incorrigible, they will never be hired. And for the partners and suppliers that violations of human rights exist, regardless of the seriousness of the case, we all refuse to cooperate with them. 2. Put an end to differential treatment We will fully respect every employee, there is no differential treatment on salary and daily management in respect of the gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, ideology, religion, political affiliation, social status, family background and status, birth defects, etc. 3. Respect for individual privacy, information disclosure is strictly prohibited. We do not interfere with the private life of the individual employee, the personal information of the employee will be sealed up for safekeeping, those violate the rule will be dismissed if discovered. 4.Establish the regular communication mechanism, respect the demands of the employees. 07 Every employee can immediately find the person in charge by using the phone, email, instant contact to express their wishes. And the working time can be freely allocated according to the actual situation of the employees. We will regularly or irregularly have a heart-to-heart talk with the employees, respect their feelings, and conduct effective work arrangements and adjustments according to the results of the conversation. We will strive to develop the mobile office, so that the employees can choose to work at home or other more convenient places, which can fully take care of their family and personal life. 5.Enhance the human rights awareness, strengthen the daily training. In addition to the usual focus on collective learning of knowledge such as etiquette and international norms, the life training such as language communication, beauty makeup and dress collocation will be carried out to raise awareness of human rights As for the problems of human rights violations such as exhibition cheat, exaggeration propaganda, poor commodity rampage that appear in the international exhibition industry, we will actively carry out extensive cooperation to launch the International Anti-Fraud Alliance and blacklist the relevant companies for global market discipline. In the coming year, we will write the respect for human rights into the employee handbook, practicing all aspects of human rights principles. 08 Part II Labor standards (3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; (4) The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; (5) Elimination of child labor; (6) The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation; A.About ourselves: *We ask the employees to work strict accordance with the labor laws and customs in the place where the company is located, and abide by the International Labor Conventions with concrete actions. *We support any form of freedom of association and collective negotiation, acknowledge the collective-bargaining rights and actively arrange a time to sincerely conduct an effective and constructive negotiation with the employees that have the demand for negotiation. *We hire the employees with the age of over 20 who graduated from college, we never use child labor. *There is no compulsory labor, a variety of work is arranged according to the wishes of the employee. The similar work is assigned with the similar salaries, benefits and entitlements. *The salaries and benefits of the employees are adjusted according to individual ability and performance, and the annual salary increment is more than 10%. *We eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. If contrary to the situation is found, we not only severely punish the person in 09 charge, but also immediately correct the wrong behavior and decisions and eliminate the effect. Our company's labor paperwork related links: http://happyforestgroup.faisco.cn/en/col.jsp?id=125 B、About the partners and suppliers We will refuse to cooperate with the partners and suppliers that have done poorly in respect of labor after we get no response from them. C. About the future *We have been working hard to create a team of solidarity and affection which builds a corporate culture of world-class standard. Meanwhile, in order to promote worldwide observance and practice for Labor Convention, we will annually organize an international exhibition of corporate culture in Hong Kong from 2016. 10 *In order to ensure the smooth employment of fresh graduates, former graduates and graduate students at the international level, we planed the Happy Forest Employment Express This activity is in the preparatory period, we will jointly launch it from January 1, 2015. Related Link: http://happyforestgroup.faisco.cn/en/col.jsp?id=543 Part III The environment (7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; (8) Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; (9) Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; Although we have very small relevance with the environment, we try our best to encourage our employees to drive as little as possible, make use of public transport, cycle or walk more often, as well as to develop the good working and living habits, we do not waste, while focus on conservation and carry out garbage classification. As for the partners and suppliers, we have not encountered the companies that are unfriendly to the environment, and from the economic considerations, they have no waste habits 11 Part IV Anti-corruption (10)Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Chairman Lina Zhu is responsible for the series of anti-corruption activities. Happy Forest established excellent complaint mechanisms and anti-corruption, Anti-Fraud internal management mode, and joined the Anti-Corruption Initiative of the United Nations Global Compact. A. International Anti-Fraud Alliance: We have been very positive since we joined the Global Compact. Happy Forest planned and prepared the International Anti-Fraud Alliance, and obtained the sign sponsor from the United Nations Compact through application. Although it will be difficult to start with slow progress, we have enough confidence and ability to do it well. 12 Happy Forest Group responded to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, especially committed itself to the anti-commercial fraud which is the main part of anti-corruption. After conducting long-term research and preparatory work, it will initiate the establishment of the International Anti-Fraud Alliance. International Anti-fraud Alliance will joint the anti-fraud organizations, chambers of commerce, enterprises, customs, government regulators, news media, think tanks, universities and research institutes etc. in various countries and regions worldwide to establish a commercial fraud blacklist, promote the tight international cooperation and fully mobilize all social forces to form a unified powerful anti-fraud regulatory and disciplinary mechanism. Schedule for establishment of the International Anti-Fraud Alliance: November 2014: A. Contact with specialized Anti-Fraud Organizations and Chambers of Commerce in various countries to join the International Anti-Fraud Alliance B. Promote the Global Capital Afternoon Tea and invite the person in charge of financial industry to participate in C. Discuss the sponsorship of the International Anti-Fraud Viral December 2014: A. Contact the major companies, news media in various countries to join the International Anti-Fraud Alliance B. Propaganda and organization registration of the Global Capital Afternoon Tea C. Determine the main sponsor of the international Anti-Fraud Viral Marketing Contest January 2015: A. Joint with the major financial companies in various countries to hold the Global Capital Afternoon Tea (Topic: Anti-Fraud and Joint Anti-Fraud) 13 B. Totally launch the international Anti-Fraud Viral Marketing Contest February to March 2015: Continue to prepare the International Anti-Fraud Alliance April 2015: The International Anti-Fraud Alliance will initially establish to seek the support of the governments in various countries. May 18 to 21, 2015: The meeting of establishment of the International Anti-Fraud Alliance will be held. Subject: Management and Institution 09: 00--17: 00, May 18 Registration Sign in half an hour before the start of each meeting May 19 09:00--11:00 Advertising and Public Relations Alliance Roundtable Service Agency Alliance Roundtable Accounting Firm Alliance Roundtable Law Firm Alliance Roundtable 14:00--16:00 Academic Institution Alliance Roundtable Volunteer Alliance Roundtable International Huge Family Roundtable Strategic Partner Roundtable May 20 09:00--11:00 Entrepreneur Alliance Roundtable Regulator Alliance Roundtable Custom Alliance Roundtable 14 Specialized Anti-Fraud Organization Alliance Roundtable News Media Alliance Roundtable Private Club Alliance Roundtable for Chamber of Commerce\Association Legislative and Law-enforcement Agencies Alliance Roundtable Enterprise Alliance Roundtable Religious Leader Alliance Roundtable May 21 09:00--16:00 Anti-Fraud Alliance Roundtable 17:00--17:30 Press Conference 18:00--22:00 2015 International Anti-Fraud Salon will celebrate the establishment of AFA June to July 2015: The International Anti-Fraud Alliance will be formally registered in Switzerland August to September 2015: The offices and recruiters will be established in Switzerland and Hong Kong October 2015: The commercial fraud blacklist will be created November 2015: Operations will be started B. International Anti-Fraud Viral Marketing Contest: Cause the international community to attach importance to boycott and prevention of the commercial fraud, which forms situation that everybody struggles against fraud. In order to practice the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, the International Anti-Fraud Alliance will lay a good mass base. We also planned the International Anti-Fraud Viral Marketing Contest, set up a 15 huge bonus and gold, silver, copper warrior medal and trophy. This activity is also currently in the preparatory period, and will start in January 1, 2015. Prize setting: Individual group: 1.The first place of individual group. Anti-fraud warrior gold medal. Bonus $1 million. 16 2.The second place of individual group. Anti-fraud warrior silver medal .Bonus $600000 3.The third place of individual group. Warrior anti-fraud of bronze medal. Bonu s $350000. Team group： 1.The first place of team group. Anti-fraud Happy Forest golden cup. Bonus $3 million. 2.The second place of team group. Anti-fraud Happy Forest silver cup. Bonu s $1.5 million. 3.The third place of team group. Anti-fraud Happy Forest bronze cup. Bonus $800000. Schedule: 1.Lead time: Jan.10, 2014 to Dec.31, 2014 2.Application period: Jan.1, 2015 to Mar.31, 2015 3.Preliminary period: Apr.1, 2015 to July 31, 2015 4.Preliminary selection period: Agu.1,2015 to Agu15,2015. 5.Finalists publicity period: Agu.16,2015 to Agu.31,2015 6. Finals period: Sep.1,2015 to Nor.30,2015 7.Finals statistical results period: Dec.1,2015 to Dec.15,201 8.Publicity:Dec.16,2015 to Dec.31,2015 9.Prize presentation date: Jan.27, 2016 in Hong Kong C. Global Capital Afternoon Tea: The financial industry is the severely afflicted area of commercial fraud and corruption, therefore we will hold three-day Global Capital Afternoon Tea at 14: 00-18: 00 from January 27 to 29, 2015 in Hong Kong, the theme is 17 Anti-Fraud and Joint Anti-Fraud. Part 5 Support the objectives and topics of the United Nations Ebola outbreak demonstrated the weakness once again that exists in the international cooperation carried out by the charity organizations from various countries in the world. We will launch the International Charity Alliance on a global scale in mid-term of 2015. The International Charitable Alliance (ICA) is part of rainbow ribbon action for Happy Forest Group. ICA will join with the public service organizations, charity regulators, news media, enterprises, philanthropists, etc in various countries and regions on a global scale to establish a platform for global dialogue, strengthen exchanges and cooperation, jointly face various problems such as the mankind geological disasters, poverty, disease and education. Meanwhile, it will concentrate 18 forces of all parities to establish strong unified charity supervision and disciplinary mechanisms and jointly fight against all kinds of illegal activities related to the charity. Meanwhile, we hope that the International Charity Alliance launched by us can link with the related projects of the United Nations, concentrate the international community's Force for Good and help the United Nations to raise funds, supplies and staff. We will apply to the United Nations after the Alliance is established. Thanks for your concern, please contact us if you have any suggestions or ideas about the work report. Contact E-mail: ceo@happyforestgroup.com Contact person: Miss Zhu Lina Happy Forest International Holdings Group Co.,Ltd. November 7, 2014 19
