Sustainability Report 2013 Small Steps BIG IMPACT SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE AT CLARIANT – AN ONGOING PROCESS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 RESPONSIBLE FIRST SUSTAIN­ ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY UN GLOBAL CARE® CHARTER ABILITY REPORT 2020 TARGETS REPORT RATED COMPACT SIGNED SIGNED PUBLISHED ESTABLISHED AT GRI A+ ENTRY INTO DOW JONES SUSTAIN­ABILITY INDEX ECOTAIN® PRODUCTS LOST WORKDAYS LAUNCHED REDUCED LOST WORKDAYS 29 new products that were labeled for their sustainability Taking precautions and employee training have resulted in a significant decrease in the Lost Workday Rate. 13 12 11 10 2013: 2012:  2011:  2010:6.8 LWDR* 5.6 6.2 6.5 performance over the whole life cycle, supporting the sustainability requirements of our customers. 09 2009:11.2 * LWDR = Lost Workday Rate: the ratio of the number of days lost due to accidents at work to every 200 000 hours of work YEARLY SAVINGS DUE TO EWATCH RENEWABLE RAW SITES WITH SPECIFIC HOURS OF MATERIALS PURCHASED SAFETY TRAININGS EMPLOYEE TRAINING approx. 10 % 79 117 000 CHF 30 m To save tomorrow WE DO OUR BIT EVERY DAY Using small ideas to bring across our main philosophy – that at the same time demonstrating our commitment to sustainability was the concept behind the new sustainability image campaign in terms of production, and dealing with employees and the we launched in 2013. Specific product examples illustrate environment. innovations by Clariant which enrich our day-to-day lives while www.clariant.com/2013 We let care Products CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, TOO Thanks to natural adjuvants that help to reduce the use of preservatives to a minimum. We even make CLEANING CLEANER With detergents that already exert their full laundry power at 30° C, saving energy and water. We keep your most precious NATURALLY SAFE Thanks to halogen-free flame retardants for electronics. Safer, more effective, and environmentally compatible. We make paints FUTURE PROOF With pigments for wall paints that not only disperse more easily but save water, time and energy in production. And we protect the crops THE FARMER, AND THE CONSUMER With ingredients that are based on renewable ressources and that increase the effectiveness of agrochemicals. Index SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2 Foreword 51 In my real life 51 6 employees – 6 views 4 Strategy, management and goals 65 GRI* Content 4 Clariant's commitment to Sustainability Report on Sustainable Management 6 Guidelines for sustainable business in 2013 8 Key areas of sustainable activity 13 Inclusion of interestgroups 66 I. Social Responsibility 15 Key Factors for more Sustainability 72 II. Governance 16 Clariant Sustainability-Policy 80 III. Company & Organization Profile 84 IV. Nature and the Environment 18 Performance.People.Planet 99 V. Health and Safety 105 VI. Sustainability in the supply chain 18 Performance – sustainable increase in productivity 109 VII. Product Responsibility 22 Beneath the green fields of Bavaria lies 111 VIII. Personnel Development an important commodity 26 Clariant Academy – cornerstone for future success 119 Annex 30 People – taking social responsibility 34 Considerable potential in agriculture 119 Reporting limits and Reporting Structure 38 Using catalysts to reduce greenhouse gases 120 GRI Index 39 Effective protection against malaria 123 External Confirmation 40 Planet – working for nature 124 Publication details 44 Lower energy consumption with ewatch 125 Glossary 46 Safer solutions in the plastics industry 48 Sustainable relationships common values shape the collaboration 49 Less packaging through new ideas – ECOPACK 50 sunliquid® – mobility from plant residues * Global Reporting InitiativeTM see page 119 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 1 Foreword DEAR READERS, we aim to become one of the globally leading companies for speWe have already reached a number of milestones in terms of suscialty chemicals and to stand out through above-average value cretainability. This is also highlighted by the fact that Clariant was ation for all of our stakeholders. To achieve this objective, we must included in the European Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI create value; value for our customers, for our employees, and not Europe) in September 2013, an index that selects listed companies least for our shareholders. Value alone is not enough for us, though. according to economic, ecological, and social criteria. Clariant’s We must create lasting value. Only through innovative strength and inclusion in the DJSI Europe makes us one of seven leading compastrict sustainable practices can we achieve this. It is the only way to nies in Europe in the chemical industry in terms of sustainability. establish a leading position in our Business Areas. We have some way to go yet, though, and must continue to steadily improve in this area. The three dimensions of sustainability are already firmly embodied in our brand: The brand value »Performance« is our promise to Clariant sees itself as an open company. The efficient flow of infordeliver innovative and competitive solutions for our customers. The mation on all sides is essential in terms of corporate responsibility brand value »Planet« constitutes our commitment to using sustainand economic success. We therefore foster a culture of proactive able and market-leading technologies and products. With the brand and transparent communication that includes all relevant interest value »People«, we signal our respect and appreciation of our emgroups. Only through this type of information can we succeed in ployees and all other stakeholders, while at the same time assuming building trusting and reliable relationships. This is one of the reacorporate responsibility at both regional and global level. sons we decided to already apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s latest G4 guidelines, which were only released a few months ago, With this in mind, we follow the targets of sustainability. To us, in our reporting for 2013. sustainability in this context means finding the balance between economic performance, environmental considerations, and social The strategic importance of sustainability is undisputed. We are issues. This is one of the reasons why we signed the UN Global a part of the global economy, society, and environment, and as such Compact in mid-2013. This Compact is a voluntary United Nations we have to always remember that our efforts to work in a sustaininitiative, under which companies commit to ensuring that their able manner are crucial to Clariant’s success. business activities and strategies are in line with recognized principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. These global challenges, together with global megatrends such as climate change, demographic shifts, and dwindling resources, Hariolf Kottmann prompted us to launch the »Sustainability@Clariant Portfolio Value Chief Executive Officer Program« at the turn of the year 2012/2013. The aim of this program is to work together with employees, customers, and other stakeholders to further systematically improve our sustainability as well as to use new, ever more efficient tools. 2 Foreword — HARIOLF KOTTMANN Chief Executive Officer CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 3 Strategy, MANAGEMENT AND GOALS Clariant wants to create added value and benefits for all stakeholders – in economic, ecological and social terms. CLARIANT'S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Clariant in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Sustainable production means to create long term values, that help In September 2013, Clariant was admitted to the European future generations to meet their needs. This can only be achieved version of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI Europe). by the efficient use of resources, by the development of innovative This (stock) index selects listed companies based on ecosolutions, and by treating people fairly and with respect. Clariant nomic, environmental, and social criteria. The Dow Jones conducts itself as a responsible company and acts on common sense, Sustainability Index is managed cooperatively by renowned with a natural appreciation for fairness and reason. This attitude New York publishing company Dow Jones and investment towards doing business opens up opportunities and is a factor which analysts RobecoSAM. With its admission to the DSJI Europe, is becoming increasingly important in setting Clariant apart from Clariant is amongst the European chemical industry's top its competitors – the result is a higher level of customer acceptance seven companies measured in terms of sustainability and and increased demand. ranks in the top 10 % in the global chemical sector. For listed companies in particular, adopting an active approach to In order to get a listing on the DJSI, Clariant was required the topic of sustainability makes sense for a number of reasons: susto demonstrate outstanding economic, environmental, and tainability improves a company's reputation amongst investors, be social achievements. This shows that corporate sustainability, they shareholders or providers of debt capital. Investors appreciate in an economic, environmental, and also a social sense, is the fact that their investment is designed to generate long-term an integral part of Clariant's strategy. Clariant strives to crevalue. At the same time, sustainability also means higher investments ate added value and benefit for all stakeholders over the for companies initially. As such, sustainability needs to be planned long term, which is why the company has set itself ambitious and implemented carefully and has to generate higher revenues sustainability targets. Ultimately, the admission of Clariant which offset or exceed its initial investments in the medium to long to the index is the consequence of the company having dediterm. cated resources to a range of sustainability projects stretching back over a number of years. Clariant's investment in sustainability aims to minimize the quantity of material it uses and cut overall costs, to enhance the appeal of the company to qualified, highly-skilled employees and to investors, and to improve product quality and the company's image amongst its customers with a view to boosting sales. As such, sustainability, in its broadest sense, has become a key criterion for »good corporate governance«. 4 Strategy, management and goals What is sustainability? Against this backdrop, sustainability is not just an additional, sepaSustainability is not a recent invention. It can be traced back hunrate activity which is pursued as an end in itself. Sustainability dreds of years. The term »sustainability« (or rather »Nachhaltigkeit« can only be effective if it is fully integrated into a company's business in German) originated in forestry and was first coined by Hans Carl processes and if it is a core objective of a company's corporate acvon Carlowitz, chief mining administrator for the Saxon court in tivity. This is why, at Clariant, sustainability is closely aligned with Freiberg, in his book »Sylvicultura Oeconomica«, published in 1713. factors that are decisive in determining the success of the company. The publication came in response to the advancing deforestation taking place at that time. Von Carlowitz’s goal was for only as much Sustainability as a tool for boosting revenues: timber to be felled as could be replaced through planned reforesta· Efficiency and profitability are being improved in all areas of busition using seeds and plants. At that time, a forester was considered ness, a process which requires constant optimization of the value to be engaging in sustainable forestry if, after 30 years, he was able chain. to leave the forested area in exactly the same condition as it was · A focus on innovation and on research and development is a found in. prerequisite for continuing to produce world-beating products for years to come and to boost sales. During the course of the 20th century, the concept of sustainability · Clariant is enhancing the competitive edge which it already infiltrated economic life as a whole. In the wake of numerous UN enjoys in global growth markets in order to secure a share of the conferences, the term »sustainable development« became widely dynamic growth in emerging economies and to play an active used. In 1987 the Brundtland Commission, a UN Commission on role in the sustainable development of individual markets. environment and development chaired by the former Norwegian · The company's portfolio is continually being optimized: to prime minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, defined sustainable develincrease profitability, to create value, to boost growth in the core opment in its report »Our Common Future« as »development that Businesses via acquisitions, and to enhance the sustainability meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of of the Group's product range. future generations to meet their own needs«. In order to successfully achieve these goals, Clariant has closely Essentially, sustainability is a process of change in which the use of aligned its production and operations with its principles for susresources, the goal of investment, the direction of technological tainability. Clariant does not just apply these principles selectively development, and institutional change are not only in sync with each or restrict their application to isolated cases. Rather, it has develother, but can increase current and future potential to meet peooped a detailed and comprehensive sustainability strategy. Programs, ple's needs and desires. initiatives, and long-term measures have been established in all key areas as a means of achieving the goals which the Group has set itself whilst also increasing the benefit for all stakeholders. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 5 THE CORE BRAND AND BRAND VALUES of Clariant GUIDELINES FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS A high degree of importance is placed on sustainability in Clariant's corporate strategy. As a leading specialty chemicals company, Clariant does not limit its sustainability efforts to compliance with statutory regulations, but has also committed to ethical and sustainable conduct in all of its commercial activities. All of Clariant's actions comply with the principles laid down in the Responsible Care® Global Charter, the Global Product Strategy, the UN Global Compact, and the company's internal Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Lasting success with strong brand values With its brand value »Planet«, Clariant is committed to sustainabilClariant strives for a business culture of continuous improvement, ity through cutting-edge technology. As a global specialty chemicals sustainable competitiveness, and top performance in line with the company, Clariant is part of the global economy, society and the company’s ethical standards. Appreciation is at the core of the environment. A responsible attitude towards the use of resources Clariant brand. Clariant attaches great importance to values, and and towards the environment is an ethical obligation and an exmakes them the central focus of every field in which the company pression of appreciation. At the same time, environmental sustainoperates and which it can influence through its actions and ideas: ability is a key factor in determining the success of Clariant and its Performance, People, Planet. customers. Clariant therefore intends to meet the highest standards and set new benchmarks through sustainable, cutting-edge techIn all of its activities, Clariant puts an emphasis on environmental nologies. This requires the strengthening of sustainable technologies, protection and safety. The company’s own regulations on the envian improved carbon footprint, reduced emissions, the efficient use ronment, health, and safety (ESH) are in line with the objectives of resources and raw materials, and reduced energy consumption. of the Responsible Care® Global Charter. In addition, Clariant has been granted ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification With its brand value »People«, Clariant shows respect for and apworldwide and is also gradually achieving ISO 50001 certification. preciation of all stakeholders and assumes corporate responsibility at a global and regional level. Dialog forms the basis of Clariant's Clariant is not satisfied just to bask in the success of what it has commercial success. This success is based, firstly, on close interacalready achieved, but is striving to continually improve in terms of tion between Clariant and its suppliers and customers, and, secondeconomic, environmental and social sustainability. The company ly, on the efforts of each individual and on all employees working has adopted several measures in its pursuit of this target. A repretogether, from research through production to sales and marketing. sentative selection of these measures will be presented in this An appreciation of customers, employees, and commercial partners, report. Clariant is also setting standards in employee support and respect, transparency, and sincerity – these are the core values of development in order to attract talented, motivated and capable the Clariant brand. Specifically, this means a focus on customer seremployees. vice, optimal working conditions, high-quality training, good career opportunities for everyone, an international focus, and intercultural expertise. 6 Strategy, management and goals Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct is binding for all Clariant employees and must be applied to business conduct in order to protect the company’s reputation and to minimize risk for shareholders. The Code regulates the fields of fair competition, freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the ban of corruption, discrimination, and child and forced labor. The Code aims to prevent: · conflicts of interest; · bribes; · insider trading; · antitrust violations; Brand Value roadshow · money laundering; For a period of five months during 2013 the Clariant Truck · accounting fraud; went on a tour of Europe in order to reiterate Clariant's · disclosure of confidential information; corporate values and the content and principles of the Clariant · abuse of company resources for private interests; brand to the company's employees. The »you are precious · environmental hazards; to us« tour, which visited seven countries, was the sequel to · discrimination or sexual harassment; the »what is precious to you« campaign, launched in 2012. · child and forced labor. The Clariant Truck has now given 3 600 employees at 23 different sites the opportunity to gain a more comprehensive Clariant bears an ethical responsibility for sustainable, ecounderstanding of the company and its values. After attending nomic, ecological, and fair business practices. Corporate the roadshow, 95 % of the visitors filled out questionnaires social responsibility is an integral component of the company’s to provide feedback on the presentation and the exhibition. philosophy. All Clariant employees are educated and trained to assume responsibility in line with their function, level of authority, and qualifications. By entering into an employWith its brand value »Performance«, Clariant delivers innovative ment relationship with Clariant, employees agree to and customized solutions. Clariant can only be successful if its cuscomply with the company's Code of Conduct. tomers are successful too. For this reason, the development and realization of innovative, customized and high-quality solutions are the focus of all Group activities. This requires industry-specific expertise: speed to market; leading technologies; a competitive product line; flexibility; an emphasis on research and development. And it requires an approach that is focused on solutions rather than just products. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 MATERIALITY-MATRIX by Clariant · Working conditions (p. 26, 111) · Corporate governance (p. 72) · Emission management (p. 44, 90) · Human rights (p. 66, 106, 109) · Energy (p. 44, 85) · Community work (p. 13, 30, 40, 70) · Renewable resources (p. 48, 85) · Water (p. 40, 92) · Substitutes and alternatives for harmful substances (p. 37, 109) · Corporate ethics and compliance (p. 16, 72) · Innovation with sustainability (p. 10, 34, 45, 50) highly · Sustainable product life cycles (p. 9, 37, 48) · Sustainable value chains (p. 9, 37, 48, 105) · Product responsibility (p. 46, 66, 98, 109) IMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS · Stakeholder dialog (p. 9, 13) · Transparency (p. 6, 10, 20, 72, 110) · Cooperation along the entire value chain (p. 48, 108) · Biodiversity (p. 25, 96) · Waste management (p. 49, 85, 94) · Demographic change (p. 111, 115) · Occupational safety (p. 101) · Food security (p. 12, 34, 46) · Employee training and advanced education (p. 26, 113) · Urbanization (p. 9, 40) · Logistics (p. 49, 95) · Wealth and consumption shifts (p. 15, 45) · Process safety (p. 66, 76, 91) moderately moderately highly IMPORTANT TO CLARIANT KEY AREAS OF SUSTAINABLE ACTIVITY The above materiality matrix, which lists the key areas of Clariant's Part of Clariant's sustainability efforts focus on areas relating to the sustainability policy, was published for the first time in the compatypical kind of activities in which a successful global chemicals ny's 2012 Sustainability Report. The matrix divides up the areas to company engages, such as plant, process, and product safety, envishow those which are highly relevant and those which are moderronmental protection, innovation, employee responsibility, and ately relevant to Clariant's business and for the various stakeholders. corporate governance. A lot has already been achieved in these arThe matrix is the product of extensive studies conducted for the eas. The other part of Clariant's sustainability efforts focuses on company's Portfolio Value Program (PVP, see page 9). In order to areas which have been defined as important during intensive dialog put together the matrix, internal and external experts analyzed with various stakeholders. These areas include employment opporexternal (market) trends and business drivers. The findings from tunities, work in the community as part of the company's commitnumerous discussions with stakeholders were also incorporated ment to corporate responsibility, environmental targets, and resource into the matrix (see page 13). The matrix and the defining role it and water management. These topics are regularly reviewed by the plays in shaping Clariant's sustainability policy was adopted by the Sustainability Council of Clariant and are adapted where necessary. Sustainability Council. (G4-18, G4-19) 8 Strategy, management and goals During the course of 2013, Clariant conducted further analyses and Each phase contains measures which are aimed at improving the collected data to update and fine-tune the matrix. This included a overall sustainability of the company. The program is backed by the survey in which customers were asked about their expectations in Collaborating Center on Sustainable Consumption and Production terms of sustainability – a continuous process. In total approxi(CSCP), based in Wuppertal, Germany. It supports existing Sustainmately 150 internal and external stakeholders were interviewed for ability@Clariant activities and helps the company develop products the materiality matrix. This serves as a tool providing information to addressas global megatrends and to position the company on the to indicate which plans and measures need to be prioritized. Clariant market as sustainability leader. addresses all of the topics listed in the matrix and also deals with some topics which the matrix does not cover. The primary focus is · Phase I: Analysis of the status quo of the sustainability activities on the areas which are of major importance to both Clariant and of Clariant and associated companies. As part of this, trends, its stakeholders. The process used to identify the key areas is based stakeholder perspectives and expectations were analyzed, and exon the approach employed by the Global Reporting Initiative. The isting product sustainability assessment tools were evaluated. content and scope of this report are also derived from this matrix. These were then compared with existing Clariant initiatives. This (G4-18) formed the basis for developing a joint vision of sustainability at Clariant. Compliance with laws, international standards, internal regulations, · Phase II: Focus on the revision and development of Clariant’s and Clariant’s Code of Conduct is a basic requirement for all activitools for a more sustainable portfolio. This includes criteria for ties. Clariant also welcomes voluntary initiatives and provides suitmore sustainable products that take account of the entire life able support to develop effective and efficient safety, health, and encycle and supply chain, assessment and development of the susvironmental standards. In its worldwide activities, one of Clariant’s tainability of the entire product portfolio, and indicators for most important objectives is safety and the protection of people and measuring progress. the environment. Clariant continuously monitors that this objective · Phase III: Introduction of the new tools into the company. This is being followed and that all safety aspects related to its activities beginns with pilot projects designed to optimize the system and are reviewed. instruments, to which end a sustainability filter is also expected to help with investment decisions. Stakeholders will continue The Sustainability@Clariant to be involved. For this reason, a Future Sustainability Forum is Portfolio Value Program planned be set up, among other things. How will we live in 2030 and how will we shape our lifestyle according to sustainable principles when the world's population continues to grow as projected, the global standard of living improves, and resources diminish? Which products will meet these needs? These questions inspired Clariant to launch the Sustainability@Clariant Portfolio Value Program at the end of 2012. This program will initially run for a total of 2 years and is customized for Clariant, its customers, and its employees. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 Sustainability index in research and development In order to make development projects comparable and to be able to judge how beneficial they are likely to be, Clariant has introduced the Corporate Sustainability Index for research & development projects (CSIR&D). This index, which is mandatory for all major research and development projects, allows Clariant to determine the relative sustainability of new products in the R&D pipeline. The objective is to ensure that Clariant pursues the »most sustainable« ideas and strategies and that all products which are developed now will remain viable and competitive in the future, too. Clariant opens new innovation center in Frankfurt The CSIR&D is used to assess the products to be developed In October 2013, Clariant opened its new global center for research based on the criteria of cost-effectiveness, environmental and development (R&D) in Frankfurt am Main. The Clariant compatibility, and social responsibility. The parameters asInnovation Center (CIC), a EUR 100 million investment located at sessed include the use and origin of raw materials, the Hoechst Industrial Park, serves as Clariant's global center for production process and energy efficiency, as well as use and chemical research and process technology. Equipped with applicasales potential. Based on these results, projects can be comtion laboratories for several Business Units and state-of-the-art pared in terms of their cost-benefit ratios and sustainability. analysis technology, the CIC is also the seat of Intellectual Property In this way the CSIR&D helps to optimize the entire developManagement and New Business Development departments. The ment portfolio. The higher the score of a certain project, the CIC further serves as a central hub, coordinating Clariant's global more attractive is the project in the context of sustainability. R&D network, which includes R&D centers throughout Europe and in North America, India, and China. Clear structures and chains The CSIR&D creates competition between the different projof responsibility, as well as internal coordination at the most imporects and provides additional transparency in the process. This tant levels of decision-making, ensure that even the highest level of motivates the R&D project managers to focus their projects management and the CEO remain informed about all developon sustainability targets from the outset – from the conception ments. However, it is the R&D managers who play the most imporof the idea right up to its market launch. Moreover, the tant role, ensuring that all projects are implemented efficiently index helps management to allocate resources optimally to and that they have a clear objective. projects and to increase the overall sustainability of the company's project and product portfolio. Located in Clariant's largest production site worldwide, the CIC benefits from the excellent infrastructure and Clariant's industrial and academic contacts in the Rhine-Main region. The new building In the summer of 2013, a visioning workshop marked the end of the covers a total area of 36 000 square meters and has the capacity for first phase of the program. Around 40 experts from all regions, around 500 employees. It offers a mixture of open-floor workspace, businesses, and functions within the company developed scenarios closed-door offices, and laboratories in order to foster the sharing for Clariant's medium to long-term sustainability strategy. of ideas between employees, visitors and partners from industry and academia. Experience has shown that innovation comes about The end of the first phase of the program ultimately formed the through open communication and through continually sharing basis for the next stage, launched in the fall of 2013. Building on the ideas. Clariant's objective is to help its customers master the global findings from the internal and external analyses – trends, benchchallenges they face in the field of environmental protection, glomarking, future scenarios, and stakeholder surveys –, the objective balization and urbanization, and resource and energy management. of this phase is to develop practical criteria and tools for evaluating The CIC will help to step up collaboration with external partners. and managing Clariant's product portfolio throughout its entire life This is why the CIC also includes an open lab, to allow the company cycle. to work on innovation projects with its customers and its development partners under one roof. 10 Strategy, management and goals »Sustainability is a pillar of our corporate strategy.« HARIOLF KOTTMANN, Chief Executive Officer PRECISE ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS FOR 2020* Based on reference values for 2005, Clariant has defined precise environmental goals for 2020. The potential reductions that the company is aiming to achieve, represent obligatory benchmarks for all activities within the Clariant Group. Reduce energy consumption Reduce direct CO2 emissions Reduce direct and indirect greenby 30 % by 45 % ­­house gas emissions by 35 % 30 45 35 05 13 20 2020 05 13 20 2020 07 13 20 2020 Start 2005: 1 711 kWh / t Start 2005:  236 kg / t Start 2007: 541 kg CO2-Äqu./t 2020 target:  – 30 % 2020 target:  – 45 % 2020 target:  – 35 % Achieved until 2013: – 26 % Achieved until 2013:  – 53 % Achieved until 2013:  – 23 % Reduce water consumption Reduce waste water by 40 % Reduce waste by 45 % by 25 % 25 40 45 05 13 20 2020 05 13 20 2020 05 13 20 2020 Start 2005: 42 m3/t Start 2005: 11,5 m3/t Start 2005: 111 kg / t 2020 target:  – 25 % 2020 target:  – 40 % 2020 target:  – 45 % Achieved until 2013:  – 28 % Achieved until 2013:  – 38 % Achieved until 2013:  – 40 % * The environmental goals don’t yet include effects of the former businesses of Süd-Chemie, acquired in 2011. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 Project House – a think tank for Sustainability was the guiding principle for the Project House right sustainable innovation from the planning stage. The building, which meets the highest In November 2013, Masterbatches opened its first Project House. In standards in terms of energy consumption, has received certification future, innovative, sustainable products for Functional Packaging for sustainable construction thanks to its design, the conception, will be developed in Pogliano in northern Italy and then rolled out and the materials used. Clariant is planning a second Project House globally. To build up an effective innovation network within the to be located outside Europe, focusing its innovations on a different Business, the Project House will not only be integrated into Masterstrategic business area, beyond functional packaging. batches’ global activities, but it will also first and foremost work closely together with the Corporate R&D departments and the new Ambitious environmental targets Clariant Innovation Center (CIC) in Frankfurt as well as with Clariant has set itself ambitious targets in the field of environmenother Businesses. tal protection. These targets are designed to ensure that they can be achieved independently of the company's commercial success. Inside the 400 m2 Project House, representing an investment of They are particularly meaningful for important criteria that can be about EUR 2 million, chemists and technicians are researching piomeasured using exact figures, such as energy consumption, water neering concepts and solutions for new masterbatch products and use or the quantity of waste and emissions produced. Clariant does processes. Together with customers, suppliers, leading institutions, not only seek to reduce significantly the relevant absolute volumes, and universities, Clariant seeks to bring promising ideas to the but also defines sustainability targets in relative terms. Improvemarket. The first strategic area of interest is Functional Packaging, ment is sought independently of production volumes, i. e. in terms with innovations to be applied to food and beverages, personal of savings per metric ton. In the coming years, Clariant aims to care, and household and cleaning products. With this facility, Clariant make production ever more efficient and sustainable. expects to achieve competitive advantages for its customers through product differentiation and faster market launches. Clariant sees considerable potential for savings relating to important environmental parameters from the optimization of complex The Project House enables Clariant to pool the Group’s chemical processes. Clariant’s objectives for 2020, which it set out in 2011, and technical knowledge and know-how and to bring together emtherefore include relevant indicators for which there are sufficient ployees and external specialists from around the globe. The think and detailed data from across all areas of the company extending tank identifies strategic areas and facilitates the exchange of ideas back over a long period of time. Where this is the case, it is possible of interdisciplinary, cross-functional groups of scientists, technoloto make reliable and comprehensive forecasts and plans. Compared gists, marketing specialists, and suppliers. Exploring emerging with the figures for 2005 – or for 2007 in the case of total greentechnologies and advanced concepts will enable Clariant to successhouse gases, since it took two years to fully establish the total volfully place sustainable innovations on the market. ume – Clariant is seeking to achieve a percentage improvement in key indicators that measures well into double figures by the year 2020. In order to define these targets, it was necessary to develop comprehensive scenarios regarding how production would develop, what the future product portfolio might look like, which innovations would be likely, and which investments would be needed. 12 Strategy, management and goals Each Business Unit receives individual guidelines for the given inThis process also includes a regular legal compliance check. Each dicators. The guidelines are reflected in Clariant’s long-term investactivity is designed to increase the positive impact on all people ment planning, since without employing the latest technologies who are connected with Clariant (stakeholders). These activities and procedures, the desired improvements would not be possible. include sponsorship, the marketing of charity events, donations While it is difficult to estimate which resources will be needed for good causes, the provision of resources and services free of charge, for some production processes due to their complexity, and even if and memberships. CCAs have become an integral part of Clariant's a greater quantity of resources is needed for innovations during philosophy and its corporate social responsibility. the introduction and development phase, anomalies and developments will be compensated for by better than expected improvements in Clariant initiates and supports a whole range of community projects other areas. all over the world. This includes projects to help improve school education. At the company's Tangerang site in Indonesia, for examThese measures are not only for internal use, but are also intended ple, Clariant is sponsoring a teacher training scheme. Clariant also to show the public that Clariant is now even more credible than beassists schools by paying for material and equipment for lessons in fore. Due to the successful integration of Südchemie, the sales of the STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering, mathematvarious business units and the excellent performance with regards ics). At its offices in Houston, Texas, the company donates items such to our current environmental targets, Clariant will start in the as robot parts and software to selected schools. In India on the next year a review process of the 2020 targets to better reflect the other hand neighbourhood was supported with a donation to build new company structure and our general sustainability ambition. a well, students were taught in environmental topics and notebooks were donated to schools. In China for example Clariant engaged in Global social activities lectures at universities about »green chemistry« or a donation to Clariant ensures that it acts as a socially responsible company. This build a home for the elderly (see also pages 30, 40). is why it supports and engages in a range of different Corporate Citizenship Activities (CCAs) all over the globe. In order to harness INCLUSION OF INTERESTGROUPS these efforts and to improve their effectiveness and efficiency, Clariant is an open company and therefore fosters a culture of proClariant now applies a fixed, uniform management and governance active and transparent communication that includes all of the releframework. Since the start of 2014, all Corporate Citizenship Activivant interest groups, looking to their concerns and expectations. ties – regardless of their scale – have been evaluated and approved This communication is key to forming reliable relationships based regionally or centrally using the same set of standards. Clariant on trust. All interest groups are regularly informed of our activities, has outlined an exact definition of the relevant authorization powers. targets, and ESH and energy performance. Detailed information is provided – particularly in line with Sustainability@Clariant – in the Annual Report, the sustainability report, numerous corporate and product information documents, and our Internet presence. (G4-24) CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 Clariant communicates continuously and promptly with important groups listed above in its communication and information exchange interest groups (stakeholders) in the form that is relevant for the process. In most cases, the contact is actively initiated by Clariant particular target group. In particular, Clariant's stakeholders include on a regular basis. However, stakeholders often come to the compashareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, local residents near ny with a wide range of concerns, which are then seriously disClariant facilities, authorities, and associations. Depending on the cussed. An example of this are the townhall meetings, which are held respective countries, issues, and target groups, Clariant conducts a in all regions and are used by employees to voice any concerns reasonable and situational exchange of views on a regular basis. and important issues. Clariant maintains an open, multilateral communication culture with stakeholders. All of these groups have a strong interest in the develStakeholders near the various locations or near central company opment and decisions of Clariant. Clariant considers the efficient flow headquarters are included in the work of the company through varof information on all sides to be essential in terms of corporate ious activities such as surveys, neighborhood forums, open-day responsibility and economic success. (G4-25) events, industrial park discussions, cooperative arrangements between plant management and labor unions, written communicaClariant also maintains an intensive dialog with financial market tions, and information on the Internet. Events are generally held on participants, investors, and analysts. During the reporting year, a quarterly or semiannual basis. (G4-26) company presentations were held which interested stakeholders from the area of finance and media representatives were invited to Questions, suggestions, concerns, and complaints (for example, attend and at which Clariant held around 50 individual discussions about noise pollution from production facilities) are recorded in deand some 45 group meetings with investors and analysts. It also tail and forwarded to the responsible department in the company held 13 international presentation trips (road shows) for the finanfor processing. This department carries out an exhaustive review of cial market, as part of which Clariant conducted meetings with the facts of the matter and gets in touch with the stakeholders or 75 market participants. Around 50 teleconferences and 30 more meetaffected parties as soon as possible. A whole series of changes results ings with investors rounded off the Investor Relations communicafrom this process. Some facilities, for example, are directly adjacent tion activities. These efforts resulted in valuable suggestions for to residential areas. Even within large industrial parks there are prioritizing relevant sustainability topics. neighbors due to the large number of different operators. As regards employees, Clariant believes it is important to discuss However, questions and suggestions from stakeholders have not netheir professional and personal issues and that their professional cessitated any serious changes to date. In the end, our goal is to experience is a key factor for moving the company forward. This is improve the positive impact on all other persons connected with the why Clariant has a fundamental interest in including the various company and to largely eliminate any negative effects. As part of dialogs conducted in 2013, interest groups did not express any extraordinary concerns or misgivings that would have had to have been highlighted in the sustainability report. (G4-27) 14 Strategy, management and goals  EY FACTORS FOR MORE K It should not be forgotten, however, that sustainability requires SUSTAINABILITY money and resources. More complicated production processes, more Population growth, increasing living standards, and globalization expensive raw materials, cleaner and more efficient plants, and have opened up new opportunities, but have also brought new chalprograms for employees and other interest groups require investlenges. Raw materials are becoming scarcer at the same time as ment – some of it substantial – and often demand ongoing expendidemand for them is increasing. This means that the current generature. In order for this desirable and worthwhile (from a social as tion must manage the available resources much more efficiently well as an economic perspective) course of action to remain affordand responsibly if future generations are to have the same chances. able for a company over the long term, the cost of pursuing sustainability needs to be compensated for by reduced costs (e.g. for enerGlobalization is placing greater demands on the commitment and gy) and additional turnover (e.g. through increased demand for productivity of workers. This is linked to noticeable individual and sustainable products). social change. Many people are already feeling the pressure of constantly changing conditions – with the corresponding psychological Clariant's business opportunities therefore lie in the development and physical consequences. A modern company that enjoys lasting of innovative products which, for example, require increasingly success is not only able to do something about this, it is obliged to smaller quantities of materials and a greater proportion of renewdo so. Clariant is already very actively engaged in this area through able raw materials, create less waste, and have an ever smaller a number of programs. potential impact on people and the environment when used. As a global chemical company, Clariant does not simply demonstrate The main business risk lies in the market not rewarding the high social responsibility to shareholders as a purely economic matter. level of care and effort and choosing to switch to cheaper alternaClariant places just as much emphasis on the careful use of resourctives as a result. Clariant can prevent this, however, by convincing es and protecting the environment, as well as on creating a pleasant its customers of the advantages of its products and production proand motivational working environment built on mutual respect. cesses as a way of helping the environment and securing their Clariant is aware that the road to doing business in a sustainable way own economic future. is paved with a whole host of challenges. Market demand for sustainable products is rising and will continue to rise. Clariant wants to not only meet the current market needs, but exceed expectations where possible. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 Clariant SUSTAINABILITY POLICY JANUARY 2014 COMMITMENT & CLARIANT EXCELLENCE COMPLIANCE Clariant commits itself to ethical and sustainable operation and DeCompliance with laws, international standards, internal regulavelopment in all business activities according to Responsible Care® tions, and Clariant’s Code of Conduct is a basic requirement for all and Clariant’s own Code of Conduct. Clariant strives for a business our activities. Clariant appreciates voluntary initiatives and proculture of continuous improvement as well as for sustainable comvides adequate support to develop effective and efficient safety, health petitiveness and top performance in consideration of Clariant’s ethand environmental and energy regulations. ical standards. SAFETY, SECURITY AND ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Among Clariant’s most important objectives are the safety and Clariant bears an ethical responsibility for sustainable, economic security of its worldwide activities and the protection of people and and ecological, as well as fair, business practices. Corporate Social environment. We set protection goals which are valid throughout Responsibility is therefore an integral component of our company’s the entire group and monitor and evaluate all aspects of our activities. philosophy. All Clariant employees are educated and trained to assume responsibility in line with their function, level of authority RISK AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT and qualification. Comprehensive assessment of risks related to our operations and products are prerequisite to our business processes. Local and globCLARIANT’S MANAGEMENT SYSTEM al emergency organization is in place to ensure comprehensive Clariant’s certified Management System adheres to all internal and emergency management and response. external standards to which Clariant subscribes and forms the company’s documented structural framework as the basis for objecINNOVATION AND PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP tives and programs. The system complies with ISO 9001, ISO 14001, We are convinced that it will be essential to understand our cusOHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Responsible Care®. Achieving and tomers’ needs. Innovation and customer focus is the key to our busimaintaining a high level of quality across all aspects of our businessness. We permanently develop better and new products and es, our ESH related activities, Social Responsibility and Responsible services to add value to our customers and to our environment. ConCare®, is our understanding of Corporate Sustainability. currently we secure that our products can be used over their entire life cycle in a safe manner for employees, customers, the public and the environment. 16 SUSTAINABLE OPERATION AND PROCESSES MONITORING AND REVIEW We take initiatives to reduce environmental, safety and health risks We monitor and review all business aspects and processes includin production, storage, distribution and usage of our products and ing Responsible Care® issues at regular intervals. Observing our the disposal of waste. This includes the efficient use of energy and quality and performance is an integral component of our business resources and the continuous improvement of our processes to processes, our top priorities and our strategic planning. minimize the impact of our activities on the environment by increasing our environmental and energy performance. THIRD PARTY MANAGEMENT Our aim is to establish mutually beneficial relationships with our third party suppliers and contractors in order to support our servicHariolf Kottmann es on the basis of our internal ESHQ standards, which include Chief Executive Officer Corporate Social Responsibility and Responsible Care®. We encourage our suppliers and service providers to adopt standards comparable to Clariant’s policies. COMMUNICATION Clariant fosters a culture of proactive and transparent communi­ cation as key to trusting and reliable relationships. All stakeholders are regularly informed about our activities, our targets and our SHQ and energy performance. We identify the concerns and expectations of our stakeholders systematically. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 Performance SUSTAINABLE INCREASE IN PRODUCTIVITY Performance.People.Planet PERFORMANCE WRITTEN BY HANS BORCHERT, PHOTOS BY JO RÖTTGER N  o  , it’s not a Garden of Eden. That would be an exagwith an eye to becoming more environmentally compatible and geration. But a green, nearly secluded oasis – that cost efficient, and also by adding new, innovative components to aptly describes the Clariant site in Santa Clara, near our tried-and-tested equipment.« Mexico City. More than 50 years have passed since this site left the drawing board. A site where the plant’s streets No sooner said than done. And it was done with a passion. No always meet at right angles under the shade of tall trees, where stone was left unturned, no screw was left untightened, no these streets are identified by letters and numbers and where a wheel was left unadjusted. Operations were still in the red at the small cactus garden even thrives at the intersection of Calle 1 beginning. Yet very gradually, bit by bit, the situation started and Calle A. The exotic plants stem from Mexico’s various deslooking up. Income and productivity had increased, cheaper yet erts and were collected by this remarkable chemical facility’s more environmentally-responsible processes had been introfirst manager. Gardening was his hobby, so they say. duced and in the end, they not only proved that the plant could operate competitively but stabilized its competitive edge at a Nowadays Fernando Hernández, 49, runs business for Clariant much higher level. in Mexico and is just as much in love with Santa Clara as the plant’s first manager. »When we talk about sustainability, to me Hernández says with pride, »Dyestuff manufacturing is back to another definition of the term is: Being fit for the future and being our biggest revenue driver and that benefits our other two successfully competing on the market.« pillars, ICS (Industrial & Consumer Specialties) and Masterbatches. Plus we’re global leaders in terms of quality and the loThe story behind it all reads like a textbook example of the man cation of our site is also a big point in our favor since it lets us reputed to be dead who instead lives on to a ripe old age. It takes deliver our customized products to customers in markets like us back to the start of the new millennium: »Back then, the prothe USA within just 24 hours.« duction of dyes was up for negotiation,« says Fernando Hernández. The analysis compiled by Group strategists, however, was dev­ Faith moves mountains and little things can make a big differastating and left hardly any leeway. Nevertheless, Hernández and ence – those are words to live by for an eternally positive thinker his employees refused to accept the verdict of »too small, too who learned some existential lessons from the serious illness expensive and not productive enough« and countered it with suffered by his youngest son David, age 9. His motto is: »There’s their uncompromising commitment to sustainable change. a solution for everything in life.« One thing was obvious to everybody involved: Without pigment As the son of a taxi driver who passed away at an early age, production, there is no Santa Clara plant. At least not in the long Fernando Hernández had to give up his plan of becoming a docterm. »Suddenly we were fighting to save more than a thousand tor. A scholarship allowed him to attend La Salle University. He jobs which raised the question of our social responsibility, too. washed cars on the side and also worked in the color laboratory Our answer was: The only way we can achieve job security is by of Clariant’s predecessor, Hoechst, where he was given a permaincreasing the flexibility and efficiency of our production pronent position in 1986 and became familiar with the »whole unicesses through drastic reductions to gas and power consumption, verse of chemical production and marketing«. After three years CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 as General Manager Central America in Guatemala, he transferred »Calculated for the year as a whole, the impact of this alone back to Santa Clara in 2001 as Head of BU Pigments. Additionally brings reductions of 1 282 tons,« explains Gustavo Palacios. he was appointed Country Head of Clariant Mexico in 2004, »That’s due to spin flash dryers which use an electronic oxygen and Head of OMS Mexico in 2013. sensor for making temperature adjustments as well as the fact that we reduce the pigments produced into smaller particles But how does that fit together: misfortune in the family accomonce they’ve been filter pressed.« Looking something like long panied by professional success? As far as Fernando Hernández spaghetti noodles, the raw material is spread out on trays and then is concerned, one does not rule out the other. On the contrary, sent to the drying ovens. That shortens the amount of time »My son’s illness, caused by vaccine induced encephalitis, they spend in the oven, thereby not only saving gas and electricity helped me question conventional wisdom while also serving as a but also cutting our costs, a useful side effect. major source of motivation and energy. Just like we care for our son at home as a team – always tirelessly trying to put together the Chemists monitor product quality in the laboratory. They take tiniest pieces of a puzzle in the hopes of improving his condition samples of the pigments produced and put them through all kinds of – at Clariant we also worked together as a team to blaze new tests. They test the impact of light and temperature, check the trails, we abandoned traditions and rose up to fulfill our obligation material’s moisture resistance, particle size and color intensity. to adopt a conscious, future-oriented approach not only toward Applications are simulated by applying the material to card using resources but also in how we deal with our employees and stock or the rubber skin of test balloons. »It all goes hand in hand, customers.« it’s flexible yet still addresses everything from A to Z, all the way down to our biological water purification,« says Gustavo Some things are not immediately obvious and when it comes to Palacios and then mentions another of his successes. dyestuff manufacturing, it takes a few explanations from Gustavo »Individual employee productivity was up 30 %.« Palacios, Head of Production and Site Manager, to understand which major and minor improvements have been made. As archaic as they might seem, the pigment drying process and others now produce considerably fewer CO2 emissions. 20 Performance.People.Planet PERFORMANCE — INNOVATIONS FOR IMAGE AND BRAND In the Design Center colors for the current trends are developed in just a few weeks — CLOSER TO THE CUSTOMER In a creative atmosphere and in close collaboration with the customer innovative solutions are developed The cycle of sustainable renewability comes full circle in Santa Almost sustainable: Santa Clara has never been more vibrant. Clara at the sight of a modern building erected just three years »But no – we aren’t anywhere near our final goal,« says Fernanago. This structure houses the BU Masterbatches which curdo Hernández. »We still have a whole host of projects in the rently comprises state-of-the-art production lines and its futurpipeline and want to make additional investments. Sustainable istic-looking Design Center. An attractive atmosphere that in the sense of environmentally-compatible production and inspires creativity – designed for customers and salespeople. Snowproducts, such as easily dispersible pigments, but also in terms white drawers silently slide open and suddenly the world is full of our social obligation.« of colors. Standing there, ready for inspection, are plastic containers in every conceivable shade. In eye-catching packaging, just Incidentally, there are also evenings when Fernando Hernández like the leading international producers of cosmetics or personal simply strolls leisurely along the plant’s streets, leaving his hygiene products might sell their shampoos or body lotions, for workday behind him. He enjoys the magnificent bloom of the instance. And that is precisely the point: What is trendy, what is mighty trees, might stop by the former cafeteria where employwell received, what fits the brand and image? ees meet for yoga or tae kwon do lessons and always has a chat with the »Dear Lady of Guadalupe«. There are several such »The goal is to work together with our customers to develop insmall altars on site featuring the famous image of this revered novations for the market,« says Omar Angeles, 41, in his capacity mother. They bear witness to Mexicans’ deep religiousness and as Key Account Manager of the BU Masterbatches. »Create a always remind Hernández »that we should treat what we were new color concept? No problem. We can do that quite fast to acgiven with responsibility and humility: nature, our environment, celarate launching time of customers’ new projects.« Production anybody entrusted to our care, those near and dear to us and facilities make up most of the rest of the building; visitors can our own lives. That’s what I call sustainability.« even watch work being done on the factory floor through tall panoramic windows. That is where color pigments and raw polymers are melted in an extruder to form colored granules and they are sent on their way to plastic-processing companies. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 Beneath the green fields of Bavaria LIES AN IMPORTANT COMMODITY Performance.People.Planet BENEATH THE GREEN FIELDS OF BAVARIA A  t first glance, the material does not appear to be anything EXTENSIVE MEASURES TO PROTECT special. But the truth is that it has become an indispensable THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT part of our day-to-day lives. That material is bentonite. In Europe there are strict standards in place governing bentonite It is used in the foundry industry, in construction, in extraction. Following the conclusion of mining operations, the land the drilling industry, and in a whole range of other industrial secis often returned to state or private ownership for agricultural use tors. Bentonite also serves as a food additive, as a clarifying agent in or for forestry, and must be reclaimed before it is returned. In Asia the drinks industry, and as a basic ingredient in the cosmetics inthere is generally no legislation governing the extraction process, dustry, for example. Bentonite is used to clean garden ponds and is but Clariant applies its own high standards nonetheless. This is also also used in gardens as a soil conditioner. And it can even be found the case when local statutory standards are less stringent than in some pharmacies, where it is sold as medicinal clay for detoxifithose applied by Clariant, like in Latin America, for example. This cation. allows Clariant to secure long-term relationships with landowners, a factor which is crucial for the success of bentonite extraction opBentonite is made from a mixture of various natural clay minerals, erations. the most dominant of which is montmorillonite. It also contains quartz, mica, feldspar, pyrite, and sometimes calcite. This allows In Germany, companies looking to extract bentonite require a minbentonite to absorb (comparable to a sponge) and retain large quaning license, which, in Clariant's case, was issued by the Southern tities of water. Bentonite is usually formed from the weathering of Bavarian Mining Authority (Bergamt Südbayern). The license is volcanic ash and is therefore usually found close to former volcanic granted based on exact data regarding location, the size of the minareas. The term »bentonite« was coined by a US geologist, who ing field, the quantity of clay to be extracted, waste material, and discovered clay deposits of this kind at Fort Benton, Montana, around the rehabilitation of the site. To be granted a license, a company is the year 1890. required to conduct a detailed analysis of the geography, geology, hydrology, natural environment, and landscape of the area, and has Clariant currently extracts around 1.7 million metric tons of bentonite to outline the impact of a potential mining operation. This includes every year at almost 50 different locations around the world. Apthe structure of the landscape, the soil, water, flora, fauna, and land proximately one quarter of this bentonite is extracted in Germany use. The impact of the operation and measures to mitigate this imand around half of it in Europe. In Europe, Clariant has major pact must be outlined, as well as the measures which will be taken open-cast mining operations in southern Bavaria, Sardinia, Spain, to restore and rehabilitate the land once the operation is over. and Turkey. The extraction and processing of bentonite is a new business area for Clariant and began with the company's acquisiThe extraction of bentonite is not comparable with gravel or clay tion of Süd-Chemie in 2011. The clay is usually processed at the site pit operations. The volume of bentonite which is extracted is much where it is extracted in order to reduce transport distances and lower than that of these other two types of rock. Moreover, the minimize logistics costs. unusable layers of material under which the bentonite is located are often ten times as thick as the bentonite layer itself. During the In Europe, there are substantial bentonite reserves all over the course of the refilling and reclamation process, these surface layers Mediterranean: Sardinia, Spain, France, the Greek islands, Turkey, must be returned to their original position. Unlike in gravel and and Morocco. In Bavaria there are still several million metric clay mining, the entire area of land used for bentonite extraction is tons of proven, recoverable bentonite deposits, the majority of which returned to the owner to be used for agriculture or forestry once Clariant has secured access to under private contracts. the reclamation measures have been completed. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 »We strive to minimize the impact we have on the landscape. This is why we take the utmost care during the reclamation process and why we try to not only adhere to the official standards imposed by the authorities, but also to give consideration to the wishes of the landowner.« GEORG SAINER, Site manager The land under which the bentonite is located is usually privately This is why, once the reclamation process is complete, Clariant usuowned. A private mining contract has to be signed with each landally spends another one to two years cultivating the land extensiveowner. This contract stipulates that the land must be reclaimed ly in order to accelerate the activity of the microorganisms in the following completion of the mining operation. This is because any topsoil. It does so, for example, by planting deep-rooted leguminous landowner whose land is not returned in a fully useable state crops, which collect nitrogen and thus ensure that these parts of will refuse to consent to the mining operation. Clariant's »green rule« the soil receive plenty of air. Woodlands are fenced off and reforestfor bentonite extraction is to ensure that it leaves no scars behind ed. It is important that the vegetation is diverse, which is why on the natural environment. mixed forests are planted where there had previously been a spruce forest, for example. This enhances the ecological quality of the area. Because the thickness of the bentonite layer is a mere 1.5 meters on THE USE OF BENTONITE average, the mining operation does not leave behind any visible Bentonite is an important material for the construction indussubsidence in the topography of the land. try, where, amongst other things, it is used for waterproofing. This is due to its high water absorption and retention NEW HABITATS FOR FLORA AND FAUNA capacity. However, the clay also possesses purification propClariant uses the technique of open-cast mining for the extraction erties: When added to water in powder form, it can bind of bentonite and applies the principle of mobile work sites. Once heavy metals, toxic substances, and other contaminants until the first area of the site has been mined, it is refilled using the earth they are removed. When used as an additive in ceramics, which is removed from the next sub-layer. However, some of the the material enhances moldability and makes ceramics less pits which are created as a result of the extraction operations have brittle. very steep slopes and can very quickly become a habitat for flora and fauna. In some instances, within a very short period of time, In the food industry, bentonite is used as a clarifying agent colonies of Sand Martins have laid their tunnel nests in the walls of in drinks (to remove turbidity from wine or fruit juice, for the excavation. During the rearing period, the clay extraction proexample) or to improve the visual appearance of high-fat cess is brought to a halt in and around the areas affected. products. It has also been approved as food color additive E 558 in the European Union. Because of its water absorption Natterjack, green, and yellow-bellied toads settle in the gravel and and retention properties, bentonite is also used as a basic insand surfaces which appear in the pits. These toad species, which gredient in a number of different cosmetic products, as a prefer a dry, warm habitat with little vegetation and small puddles, drying agent in packaging, and as an additive in the oil indusare on the Red List of Threatened Species. If areas of the mining try. site are inhabited in this manner, they are classified as temporary biotopes and left untouched. However, because the extraction and Bentonite is also an ideal adsorption agent because it is a subsequent refilling process is usually very quick, this happens very porous material which is insoluble in water and which has a rarely. large surface, meaning it can bind itself to water or other molecules. This is why bentonite can be used in the filters of The principle of sustainability is rigorously applied to bentonite exbreathing apparatus, just like activated carbon, aluminum traction, including in the reclamation process and when returning oxide, or silica gel. the land to the owner in a suitable condition for use in agriculture and forestry. Clariant goes to great lengths to make optimal use of the available resources and to keep the length of the mining operation as short as possible. 24 Performance.People.Planet BENEATH THE GREEN FIELDS OF BAVARIA Environmental protection and conservation are key priorities throughBecause bentonite is classified as a landowner's mineral (Eigentüout the process. Where possible and practical, new ecosystems such mermineral) under the German Federal Mining Act, which means as wetlands for amphibians, dragonflies, butterflies and a number that the decision on whether or not to sell this mineral lies solely of other insects are created. In Spain, for example, new waterholes with the landowner, it is important to present landowners with rewere created in areas where there had previously been no notable sults from the post-operation use of land from prior mining projects biodiversity to speak of. Tendrils and hedges were planted and have as early as the contract negotiation phase in order to persuade them enhanced the area's biodiversity as well as attracted rare species. to consent to the extraction of the material. This is why it is crucial to ensure that the company is in a position to present the best possible results from land reclamation and restoration. Extraction of bentonite and renaturation Overburden Layer approx. 30 m Humus/Clay Biotope/Agriculture Overburden Test Drilling Layer Groundwater Lens Shaped Deposit of Bentonite 1. Exploration 2. Exploitation 3. Digging 4. Restoration 5. Reclamation CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 Clariant Academy CORNERSTONE FOR FUTURE SUCCESS Performance.People.Planet CLARIANT ACADEMY W  e ll-educated and motivated employees are key to The academy has also responded to the increasing demand for the success of any company. This is why Clariant topics relating to human resources management within the company. supports its workers via the transfer of knowledge The most unique such example are the Leadership Training proand values, and offers young people the opportunity grams, which were introduced back in 2011 and which employ a to receive thorough training. Moreover, Clariant offers its employspecial approach to conveying Clariant's corporate values. The ees training and qualification programs which address specialized course aims to teach participants how to reflect on the impact which topics relevant to the chemical industry. The company fosters the the company's corporate values have on leadership roles and how ability and ambition of each individual employee, as well as his these values can be incorporated into day-to-day operations: How or her commitment to delivering a high standard of work. can we promote the pursuit of excellence in our day-to-day management duties? How can we consistently boost the potential of our This was what Clariant had in mind when it established the Clariant team to perform with the objective of creating sustainable value, Academy to add to its existing training programs at the start of and how can we express recognition and appreciation to our em2013. The academy comprises all training programs that address ployees as part of a constructive dialog? The Leadership Training Clariant's values, mission and strategic goals. To realize its vision of programs set the standard for all employees in management posibecoming one of the world's leading specialty chemicals compations and promote the development of a consistent management nies, the Group relies on well-trained and highly motivated employculture which is in sync with Clariant's values. ees. The programs offered by the academy place a particular emphasis on developing the knowledge and skills of employees who assist in the implementation of the company's strategy and in the ADVANCED EDUCATION PROGRAMS achievement of the goals which this strategy entails. They aim to AT THE CLARIANT ACADEMY equip employees with the skills they require to perform to the best Leadership (»The way to lead«): Training in leadership skills of their ability and to create value for customers (through competiand management techniques is designed to take the impletive and innovative solutions), for themselves (through personal mentation of Clariant's values to the next level and to focus development), for stockholders (through above-average returns), the Group on delivering first-class achievements. and for the environment (through sustainable production). General Management (»The way to manage«): Training in The Clariant Academy teaches effective and success-oriented corbusiness and organizational skills in an international porate governance and operational techniques which are also in environment is designed to deliver more consistent sustainsync with Clariant's sustainable corporate values. The goals of the able growth for the company (starting in 2014). programs offered by the academy are: · to teach leadership skills and techniques; Functional Excellence (»The way to work«): Training in · to enhance organizational and business management core business processes in innovation, sales, the value chain skills in an international and strategic context; and production is designed to boost Clariant's performance · to optimize core business processes; and further enhance its competitive edge at the global level. · to teach employees how to deal with change constructively. Change Management (»The way to change«): This training program is designed to encourage employees to view changes as opportunities rather than as risks, and to improve their understanding of how they should deal with change. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 The functionally-oriented Excellence programs, developed by the Clariant Excellence Initiative, have also been integrated into the Clariant Academy structure. These programs focus on excellence in core processes relating to innovation, sales, the supply chain, and production. Starting off by looking at defined process standards, the participants develop a common understanding of processes and CLARIANT JAPAN MANAGEMENT SCHOOL – enhance their skills in their respective fields of operation. The ExAN EXAMPLE FROM ASIA cellence programs offered by the academy also include a procureThe Japan Management School is a two-year development ment training course. This course consists of three modules which program which was designed to create the next generation address new strategies in and optimal approaches to purchasing, of leaders. Talented young people are equipped with the basupplier management, and contract negotiations. sic knowledge and skills required for management positions. Self-reflection and leadership skills training also form an important part of the program. It provides participants with the opportunity to discuss corporate strategy in depth as well as to gain a clear idea of their own career ambitions and to start building a strong network. 28 Performance.People.Planet CLARIANT ACADEMY PRODUCTION MANAGER CURRICULUM – A LOCAL PROGRAM OFFERED IN GERMANY In Germany, Clariant offers a series of seminars for (prospective) production managers, the objective of which is to Business development and continuous optimization inevitably go provide participants with the ideal preparation required for hand in hand with change. However, human beings generally have a the role and the responsibilities which come with it. natural preference for stability and continuity. This is why Clariant strives to dispel any reservations which employees may have about In addition to the legal aspects of the job, the program's changes, to emphasize the positive side of these changes, and to »ESHA« module also addresses the responsibilities of a proshow employees how they can find practicable, motivating ways of duction manager in the fields of health, safety, and environachieving the intended goal of the changes. Using the principles mental protection. of change management, the academy teaches participants the basic knowledge and operational techniques involved in the process. This The »Cost Accounting« module covers the basics as well as program is aimed primarily at managers, as a means of helping the terminology and tools used by Clariant to ensure that them to foster the acceptance for change within their departments production managers have the confidence and ability to and to get their employees to cooperate in the change process. make informed business administration decisions within Moreover, the program on Applied Change Management is designed their respective production units. for employees who are directly involved in change management projects. In this program, participants share their individual expeFamiliarizing operational managers with their duties under riences relating to change and learn how to apply certain strategies statutory employment law is the objective of the »Labor and and tools to their own specific scenario. The seminar is followed Works Constitution Act« module, while the »Personnel Deby follow-up sessions in which participants can discuss with their velopment« module looks at how individual support can be colleagues any successes or difficulties they have encountered provided to employees, and outlines the internal processes when implementing the solutions they came up with during the first which Clariant has in place for this purpose. part of the course with a view to optimizing the implementation process. As part of the company's annual performance management, line By setting up this academy, Clariant has created the ideal environmanagers and employees discuss where there is a need or desire for ment for continuous learning. It aims to give employees the chance training based on the goals the company is currently pursuing to develop as individuals and to unlock their full potential whilst and, if necessary, they agree to participate in one of the local training at the same time generating strategic growth for the company. In orprograms or in one of the advanced education programs offered der to guarantee a close and consistent link between the academy by the Clariant Academy. and the company's strategy and corporate culture, the different programs are taught in the same format, with the same content and In 2013, more than 10 000 employees took part in one of Clariant's the same methods all over the world. training programs and a total of 117 000 hours of training were provided. The Clariant Academy accounted for almost one third of this The programs offered by the academy add to the extensive range of volume, with the main focus in 2013 being on the Leadership Trainother training and advanced education programs already available ing programs, for which there were 26 000 hours of training and at Clariant. Line managers and employees can check the online remore than 780 participants. More than 80 000 hours of training were gional and local training catalogues to find information on a whole provided in the form of local advanced education programs, where range of training programs covering topics such as presentation and the main focus was language courses, communication and presencommunication techniques, language learning, time management, tation skills, performance management, and business administraproject management, and events for newly recruited employees. There tion. Training courses on occupational, process and product safety are also local events tailored to specific needs, such as production as well as environmental protection are also offered, but the manager training courses in Germany or the Management School in participation numbers for these programs are not yet available. Japan (see box). CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 People TAKING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Performance.People.Planet PEOPLE — CHANGE IN SMALL STEPS On the way to music lessons at Professora Domschke School in Suzano WRITTEN BY HANS BORCHERT, PHOTOS BY JO RÖTTGER S  o  metimes – not always, but sometimes – little miracles »Herz und Mund und Tat und Leben,« the Brazilian students do happen. Like in Suzano. A school stands there, a can be heard singing Bach’s cantata »Heart and Mouth and bright, beaming testament to sustainable change. This Deed and Life« in their very best German. They sing with ardor school once had a dubious reputation, it was more of a and are accompanied by 35 violins, three violas and six cellos. grubby shelter than an impeccable educational establishment: Anderson Lacerda, music teacher and violinist, keeps time. He dilapidated and neglected, left to the capriciousness of its studirects the little orchestra and later calls to mind a quote from dents and a horror for every one of its teachers. »A total nightFriedrich Nietzsche who once said, »Without music, life would mare,« remembers its current principal José Jair. »Inconceivbe a mistake.« able, but true.« How very true. At least the metamorphosis this school has unAll of that has changed now. Whitewashed masonry, halls and dergone would have been inconceivable without music. And classrooms swept clear of debris. Photos and paintings adorn also without Clariant. This project arose through the Company’s the walls and the facility used to feed the students can finally be collaboration with Brazilian conductor João Carlos Martins’ called a kitchen, once again. That is a first impression, unexfoundation ‘Fundação Bachiana’ within the scope of our diverse pectedly accompanied by a cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach. ‘Responsible Care’ corporate initiative. In the eyes of the The school’s orchestra is practicing, bows gliding across strings, Maestro, music can help change an entire life and today, not quite everything blending to set a new, positive tone at this school. four years later, Professora Domschke School is living proof of Music is its joy and good cheer, its vitality and – more than anythe truth in those words. thing else – its soul. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 31 Just ask the students. Whether short or tall, in the choir or in The instruments are on loan from the »Fundação Bachiana« the orchestra. These are the faces of bright, astute children who (financed by Clariant in this project) and to the great joy of Eduardo are devoted to rhythm and sound. Up front, in the concert masde Camargo, the educational project coordinator, students »care ter’s seat, sits Thamires de Freitas Pereira, 17. She is just about to for and guard them like precious treasure.« Camargo works begraduate and the opportunity to play the violin has been a great hind the scenes to handle all of the organizational matters. He gift. »I’ve found my calling,« says the young girl with a twinkle looks for music teachers, plans orchestra concerts, keeps Maestro in her dark eyes. One day she will be on stage as a soloist, which Martins up to date and also has to do a lot of persuading because is why, in addition to the four orchestra rehearsals per week not all of the students have their parents’ support. »There’s also she practices alone another five hours every day. resistance,« says the school’s coordinator, Maura Andréia Prado Bolla. »It’s often the fathers who object. They want their children For Maestro Martins, a world-renowned pianist and Bach interto start working small jobs to earn money as soon as they turn 14.« preter, Thamires de Freitas Pereira already falls into the category of highly gifted. »It’s as if we found a diamond in the rough That was what happened to Lindsay Melissa Rodríguez Lima, and it is now in our care,« he says. That is not actually the crux 16, and her friend Mayara Rocha de Jesus, 16. Both come from of the matter, however. There is another, much more important meager circumstances and they literally had to fight to be able aspect: Music helps us integrate underprivileged children and to pursue their love of music. »My father actually gave me a catfamilies into society. It gives these people entirely new, unforegorical no,« says Lindsay, »but my willpower was stronger. gettable experiences.« The violin simply helps me express my feelings and I listen to whatever classical music I can find.« It should be mentioned that music lessons are by no means a standard part of Brazil’s public school curriculum and that if Mayara’s motivation is similar. She lives with her family in a fairly music is even offered, then only in theory. »This culture didn’t modest house where she shares her bedroom with a brother, her even exist,« explains Principal José Jair and goes on to summagrandmother and her parents. Occasionally she climbs up to the rize the wide range of achievements that this project has made roof of their dwelling to practice while »dreaming of a better possible. future.« It takes her ninety minutes just to get to school every day. »But,« she says, »that doesn’t bother me at all because music »It changed the entire social climate at my school. The students and the orchestra mean the world to me.« developed team spirit; they don’t just make music together, now they listen to one another. Their learning behavior has also imDespite its somewhat musical name, Suzano is a key industrial proved enormously. They’re more concentrated in what they do, center, easily accessible by car and just a one-hour drive from more attentive and structured, they inspire each other and this São Paulo. Clariant first opened this site in 1958. It boasts a long gives them a huge influence on the behavior of all their classhistory and employs some 1 000 people, making it the Group’s mates who neither sing in the choir nor play in the orchestra. third-largest production facility around the globe. It’s crazy, but when we started, a lot of them had a hard time just reading. Now they’re sight-reading.« In the eyes of the site manager, Werner Stripecke, this gives rise to an obligation that extends far beyond the Group’s commitTake Lucas, 13, and his sister Paloma, 11, for example. They live ment to music education at Professora Domschke School. »We on Rua Santa Rosa, not far from their school, where the two have maintained an ongoing dialogue with each one of the city’s children carrying violin and cello cases seem exotic amidst stray political and social forces including numerous measures that dogs and surrounded by small houses with bars securing both aim to improve the social situation, and not just in our immediate windows and doors. Who would expect to hear the sounds of vicinity. We look at issues like health, education and training, Mozart here, of all places? But just listen. »When my children culture and transparency, too.« practice together,« says their mother Christina, »the neighbors stop by to listen. They invite them over. They say come and play for us, it’s such beautiful music.« 32 Performance.People.Planet PEOPLE — WITH ONE VOICE The students show great dedication in the choir rehearsal The list of initiatives is long. It ranges from the popular »Open Right now he’s standing in front of a class at Professora DomHouse» to free health information and medical checks (»SESI schke School talking about career opportunities in the chemical Cidadania«) and even joint emergency and accident rescue exindustry. »Look up at the mountain but don’t expect to reach ercises. The factory’s doors open up for group tours by school the peak right away,« he advises. »Take it one step at a time, start children (»Conhecendo a indústria«) and a »Career Week» (»Sesmall, but don’t lose sight of your goal.« mana das Profissões«) is held every year at the local school Professora Domschke. During that week, Clariant employees visit A nice metaphor, for music, too. To which Maestro João Carlos classrooms where they give a lively account of their educational Martins says: »Our project in Suzano is all about the emotions of background, their work and their day-to-day activities. young people. It started in the school and took the children onto the stage of the famous Sala São Paulo concert hall. There I conIf you ask Werner Stripecke, whose father once emigrated from ducted them as they played a piece by Vivaldi. And that night Bad Hersfeld to Brazil, this is not some kind of image cultivation was just as unforgettable for me as it was for them and their work, rather active decision-making assistance. »These young families. Thanks to Clariant, our joint efforts are bearing fruit people need guides and role models. That’s vital, particularly in and they’re now even serving as a model for a few other similar their social environment. Time and time again I not only get a corporate efforts throughout Brazil.« sense of just how curious and interested they are, but also what limited horizons they have.« Indeed: A Música Venceu – The music won! CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 33 A  t the close of the 18th century, English economist Nevertheless, the achievements to date must not be a cause for Thomas Robert Malthus suggested that mankind would complacency. Instead, the technology, auxiliaries, and working methods soon face serious food shortages. The fact that the used in agriculture must continue to undergo constant developpopulation was (and still is) growing exponentially while ment, as not only is the world's population growing rapidly, but more food production is only increasing on a linear basis, would, in his than 10 000 different diseases and pests are also threatening the view, lead to a widening gap between the supply and demand for Earth's crops. If these diseases and pests were to be left unchecked, food. Malthus, however did not guess, the speed at which advances the amount of crops lost around the world would be colossal – this would be made in technology; advances which have drastically represents an essential risk to the food supply for the world's popuincreased productivity in agriculture. lation. Three-thirds of the world's annual potato crop would be lost, as would half of the wheat crop. Today, some 6 000 tailor-made pesticide systems are available to combat such diseases and pests. Considerable potential in AGRICULTURE Performance.People.Planet CONSIDERABLE POTENTIAL IN AGRICULTURE EFFECTIVE SUPPORT FOR PESTICIDES croplands to be increased. The additive is compatible with all widely To ensure that a pesticide can work, the active agent or combinaused active agents and is available as a mixing compound as well as tion of active agents in the pesticide must be combined with other a modifiable or finished product, which is to be added to a tank mix. additives so it can be added to the liquid used for delivery (usually water) as well as be applied to the right areas in and on the plants. Synergen® OS is not harmful to human health, nor is it in any way Many of these auxiliaries can be hazardous to health or have poor an irritant. The environmental profile of Synergen is completely biological degradability and do not conform to the requirements of positive, as considerably less water is needed for application, and modern and sustainable agriculture. In Synergen® OS, Clariant has the additive is biodegradable (42 % in 28 days and without leaving developed an effective additive that is manufactured from renewable behind any harmful residues). Synergen® OS has been awarded imresources, is biodegradable and has no health concerns attached portant safety and quality certification as per ISO and OHSAS. to it, as well as being exempt from labeling. Synergen® OS is one of the first products to have received the EcoTain® certificate. (see box on p. 37) Synergen® OS helps pesticides to reach their intended destination in sufficient quantities, i.e. on and in plants, where the active agent EFFICIENTLY FIGHTING HUNGER in the pesticide can realize its full biological potential. The auxiliaIn order to satisfy the food demand of an ever-growing population, ries consist of renewable raw materials, most commonly a methyl the yield per unit area must be improved. This can only be achieved oleate derived from vegetable oils (rapeseed, sunflower, or soya) by using efficient fertilizers, the main component of which is amcombined with a polyglycerol ester made from coconut oil. Synermonia, which has thus become an extremely important compound. gen® OS reduces losses during the spraying process, increases the Production of ammonia, however, requires large amounts of energy. efficiency of the active agents, and helps them to make their way inOver 170 million tons of ammonia is produced around the world evside the leaves faster. ery year, of which 80 % is used in fertilizers. Thanks to Synergen® OS, the amount of each active agent and water Clariant has revolutionized the production of ammonia, a process that need to be used in the pesticides can be significantly reduced. that had remained the same for almost a century. Fertilizers can Optimizing the application of pesticides results in a significant innow be manufactured considerably more efficiently thanks to the crease in crop yields and at the same time reduces the amount of use of highly effective catalysts in the ammonia synthesis process. work required. Reduced drift means that the pesticide can be applied ReforMax® and the innovative AmoMax®-10 significantly reduce much more accurately and efficiently on the target area. Depending pressure in the reactor during the ammonia synthesis process – on the approval regulations, the distance that must be observed bewhich is extremely energy-intensive, particularly in the final stage tween the target area and neighboring fields or bodies of water can – and at the same time shorten the catalyst's reaction time. also be significantly reduced. This allows for the size of the useable CROP LOSS BY GERM, VERMIN, AND PEST PLANT globally Without crop protection Current crop protection possibly up to 61 % crop loss reduces potential crop loss by approx. 53 % Usable crop 32 % Usable crop 68 % Germ 18 % Germ 13 % Vermin 10 % Vermin 18 % Pest plant 9% Pest plant 32 % Source: Acc. to Oerke, E.-C.: Safeguarding production – Losses in major crops and the role of crop protection, Crop Protection 23 (2004), 275 – 285 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 35 »Thanks to Synergen® OS, crop protectants can be applied more efficiently, and maximum harvest yields and highest qualities can be achieved with the smallest possible rational amounts of active agents.« PROF. DR. PETER BAUR, Head of the Crop Solutions Competence Center at Clariant and developer of the product Lowering the pressure and temperature reduces the amount of enlonger; at the same time costs and waste are reduced. This Clariant ergy needed to manufacture ammonia by around 40 %. Each of the product is already being used in US food aid shipments sent to de70 active plants that use these Clariant products achieve annual enveloping countries and drastically reduces the amount of grains and ergy savings of around 1 000 gigawatt hours, which corresponds cereals spoilt upon arrival at the destination. to the energy demand of 50 000 households. STRONGER GROWTH UNDER FILM OXYGEN ABSORBERS ENSURE FOOD KEEPS Using (greenhouse) films or ground-covering tarpaulin on open FRESH FOR LONGER fields significantly increases crop yields, as the ambient temperature In industrialized countries, around 20 % of food is thrown away. of the plants under the covers rises markedly. This encourages Bacteria, mold, and other fungi are partly to blame for this – even in growth – even in the colder temperatures at the beginning of the packaged food. The innovative Oxy-GuardTM prevents these unyear. At the same time, the ground covering results in less water wanted organisms from reproducing and multiplying within food evaporating, which, on the one hand, provides plants with greater packaging. The product, which is a mixture of salt and iron powder, humidity and, on the other, reduces the need for them to be water­ed. is included in sealed food packaging and ensures that the oxygen Clariant can count itself among the market leaders in the developcontent inside the packaging does not exceed 0.01 %. The non-toxic ment of polymer additives for agricultural film. The AddWorks® iron contained in Oxy-GuardTM begins to oxidize inside the packagAGC product range comprises light and heat stabilizers, infra-red ing, consuming a good amount of the oxygen still present after and UV absorbers, as well as an AddWorks® LXR® 920 flame the packaging has been sealed. The salt in Oxy-GuardTM lowers the retardant. moisture content. Oxy-GuardTM thus eliminates the substances bacteria and fungi need to survive, i.e. oxygen and water, from inside What is important when using the film is a good light management the packaging. It can be used for a wide range of foodstuffs, e.g. baksystem, as the blackening of plants and discoloration of the leaves ery products, noodles, pasta, meat, coffee, tea, chocolate, and even by UV light, e.g. in roses, are common problems. In addition, some frozen foods. Thereby shelf life is increased, which helps to reduce harmful species of fungi thrive in particular when exposed to UV the mountains of food wasted. light. Clariant high-performance UV blockers protect flowers from blackening and limit the damage caused by Botrytis fungi. PROTECTING CEREALS AND GRAINS DURING TRANSPORT In order to remain fully functional, this film has to be able to withEffectively protecting cereals and grains against mold and other stand a great deal, with fertilizers and pesticides having a detrimenharmful micro-organisms during long-distance transit – particulartal effect on the film, likewise UV rays from the sun. For reasons of ly by sea – enables losses to be minimized. An effective product in nature conservation, new standards in pest control precipitated the this respect is Container Dri® II, a drying agent that can be used to development of a new generation of agrochemicals, which negaprotect cereals and grains from moisture. It represents a cost-effectively affect the service life of agricultural films. Alternative chemitive alternative to propanoic acid, which is otherwise commonly cals, such as sulfur, reduce the service life and efficacy of convenused for this purpose. Container Dri® II is added to the wheat in tional films by up to 25 %. Clariant, however, has developed a material pouches, absorbs up to three times its own weight in water, and that boasts an innovative structure and composition allowing these stores this water in a special, harmless gel. This results in a signifinew films to be used in extreme conditions for prolonged periods of cantly less damp environment, in which foodstuffs keep fresh for time without a reduction in efficacy. 36 Performance.People.Planet CONSIDERABLE POTENTIAL IN AGRICULTURE SUSTAINABLE COATING AGENTS safety. Unlike many traditional fertilizer coatings which are based FOR FERTILIZERS on fossil fuels, FERTALA® 7258 is based on renewable resources Transportation and shipping of fertilizers can cause damage to the and is more environmentally compatible. product like caking or bridging of the fertilizer granules. Fertilizer additives help to protect against common problems as well as proBased on excellent product performance, coating agents help to retecting against moisture and improving handling, by increasing duce costs and increase effectiveness of fertilizers, which contribflowability. Additionally, FERTALA® 7258 reduces dust formation utes to global food security. during handling, which lowers transportation costs and increases ECOTAIN® The EcoTain® label was developed in line with Clariant’s objecThe final stage of the EcoTain® lifecycle addresses the issue of tive to continually improve the sustainability of its products. eco-integration, in other words product disposal and the impact EcoTain® represents a holistic approach to sustainability and is this has on the environment. Our ultimate goal is always to used to evaluate products based on a four-phase life cycle; this minimize and recycle waste. Any remaining waste should have provides a means of assessing and understanding the ecological, as limited an environmental impact as possible. economic, and social impact of Clariant’s products and business activities over the entire value chain. From the initial chemical A number of additives and auxiliary materials from the Crop Sodesign, production, and use of a product all the way to its recylutions (eight products), Industrial Lubricants (15 products), cling and disposal, EcoTain® supports the development of susand Paints & Coatings (six products) business segments already tainable solutions and safer chemical products. Clariant presentbear the EcoTain® label. In spring 2014, Clariant will present ed EcoTain® to the public at the start of 2013. It uses the label more than 25 EcoTain® products from the Personal Care segto identify those products that satisfy high standards in terms of ment, which use, for example, sustainable emulsifiers, mild sursustainability. factants, and natural emollients in creams and cosmetics. Clariant will present EcoTain® products from the Cleaning Sustainable thinking starts in the development stage of a prodProducts segment in fall 2014. uct. The aim is to develop efficient products based on safe materials, while optimizing the use of renewable raw materials. The market’s initial reaction to this new development approach has been very positive. For example, the internationally reThe next stage is the implementation of a product idea using a nowned US consultancy Frost & Sullivan (active in the fields of responsible production process. This means environmentally market research, market analysis, and strategy consulting) is compatible and safe processes that conserve resources and cut presenting Clariant’s Crop Solutions business segment the New emissions and waste. During this phase, Clariant optimizes Product Innovation Leadership Award in recognition of the the efficiency of chemical reactions and processes. innovative approach of EcoTain®. The third phase of the EcoTain® life cycle focuses the on safe and efficient use of the products themselves. Products should not only fulfill their intended functions, but also significantly 2014 improve end-product performance and be safe in all defined applications. GLOBAL ADJUVANTS FOR CROP PROTECTION CHEMICALS NEW PRODUCT INNOVATION LEADERSHIP AWARD CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 37 Using catalysts to reduce GREENHOUSE GASES I  n  cluding raw materials, the chemical industry accounts for 10 % Of the thousands of chemicals produced each year, just 20 subof total and 30 % of industrial energy consumption globally. stances are responsible for around 80 % of the chemical industry’s Emissions from production of the chemical industry acenergy needs and 75 % of its greenhouse gas emissions. Although counts for 5.5 % of global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions the chemical industry has already made huge efficiency improveand 7 % of all greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, the ments as regards this small group of chemicals, new technologies use of a range of chemical products reduces greenhouse gas emisneed to be developed and implemented in order to make further sions – for example, insulation materials, more efficient lighting significant advances. technologies, and lightweight materials in automotive manufacturing and energy generation. CLARIANT DEVELOPS NEW CATALYSTS IN BRAZIL Regulatory requirements and increasing energy prices are drivers With this in mind, Clariant has opened a research and development for decreasing energy demand. In Europe energy intensity decreased laboratory for catalysts for use in the oil and gas industries in by more than a half. However, there is still considerable savings Suzano, Brazil. The aim is to develop a new generation of catalysts potential, which could achieve a further total reduction of up to 40 % and to provide technical support to customers in the region. Clariant by 2050. The increased use and optimization of catalysts for expects Brazil’s productive gas reserves to increase. In addition, chemical reactions could make a significant contribution in this redomestic production will triple from its current level of 65 million gard. Catalysts – i.e. substances that speed up reactions without to around 180 million cubic meters per day by 2020. A large part being consumed themselves – are already used in around 90 % of all will be produced off-shore. Brazil’s production of deep-sea oil acchemical processes, thereby increasing efficiency in production counted for around 25 % of global production in 2011. According and reducing energy consumption, and in turn lowering greenhouse to the country’s National Petroleum Industry Organization (ONIP), gas emissions. demand for goods and services from the oil and gas industries will reach a magnitude of at least USD 400 billion by 2020. In addition, tightening of low-sulphur fuel specifications in South America and the increasing difficulty in processing raw materials is further stimulating demand for hydrogen catalysts. Clariant’s Business Unit Catalysts is one of the market leaders in this field. Optimization of high-performance catalysts can contribute significantly to improving hydrogen supply in refineries. 38 Effective protection AGAINST MALARIA A  c cording to the World Health Organization, almost one make nets in the quality deemed suitable by the World Health Ormillion people die annually from malaria an illness ganization (WHO) to offer effective protection against mosquitoes. inducing fever, shivering, gastrointestinal inflammaClariant has developed a specific masterbatch technology that is tions, cramps and organ failure. Approximately one used by one of the WHO listed Long Lasting Net (LLIN) producers. half of victims are children under the age of five. Despite the fact that This masterbatch technology brings bio efficacies to the LLIN the number of cases is decreasing, still every day 1 300 children which are assessed by the market to be one of the best. One criteriunder 5 loose their lives due to malaria. The disease is most common on for a WHO listing is that the nets can be washed at least 20 in tropical and sub-tropical areas, and 90 % of the estimated 500 times without impairing their efficiency. million people suffering from malaria worldwide live in Africa. The net produced with Clariant Masterbatches takes an innovative Malaria is generally transmitted by mosquitoes, and most people are approach. In addition to its mechanical protective function, an bitten at night. The best protection is afforded by a mosquito-free insecticide that is non-toxic to humans but kills mosquitoes on consleeping environment, ideally through the use of reliable mosquito tact is embedded into its fibers. The net thus offers double the nets. There are less than one dozen manufacturers worldwide that protection. The special feature of this net fiber is its function as a repository for the insecticide. What is more, the net is guaranteed to work for five years. Clariant is a trailblazer in quality and innovation for mosquito nets on the global market. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 39 Planet WORKING FOR NATURE Performance.People.Planet PLANET WRITTEN BY HANS BORCHERT, PHOTOS BY JO RÖTTGER O  n  ce there was water. Fresh and crystal clear. It rose The drama of just one generation, told in fast motion. The story up from the depths of the nearly impenetrable forest ended with a raging fire, a kind of grand finale. In 2007 it ate its of the holy mountain of Cerro de Manjui. Olivia knew way up the slopes of the Cerro de Manjui, annihilating flora and that small rivulet near the spring, the creek it formed. fauna across more than 129 hectares. Her childhood was accompanied by the music of cheerfully burb­ling water and Olivia never could have imagined that it might The employees of Clariant Colombia had just moved: From gradually fall silent. But that is what happened: slowly and siBogotá to the newly-designated industrial park at the edge of the lently, hardly noticeable. First the cool, flowing water disappeared, small community right outside the gates of Colombia’s capital then the well dried up and that which had appeared to be etercity. Surrounded by lusciously green meadows, things are still nal, was no more. pretty rural there and the buildings’ unusually modern architecture, featuring broad glass facades and a filigree, sometimes Now 67 years old, when Olivia thinks about the creeping change seemingly weightless concrete structure, harmonizes quite natthat altered her surroundings, a Colombian proverb comes to urally with the facility’s surroundings. mind. It goes: »He who knows nothing is no different than he who sees nothing.« »Improving productivity while simultaneously ensuring the sustainability of every process as well as compliance with the very She found it difficult to read the signs correctly all those years. highest environmental and safety standards – all those were priWorkers moved in. Their saws cleared woodland along the edge orities while planning the new Cota site,« says site services of the forest, made space for pastures and fields. And then it coordinator Jairo Acosta Rodríguez. »This was our contribution continued, up the increasingly steep slopes. The thicket was cleared toward relieving the industrial burden of our capital’s densely and the rainforest’s natural vegetation disappeared. In their populated urban areas which 6.8 million people call home. And place, cultivated pines and eucalyptus trees took root. Fast-growing it was also the starting point of our local, environmentally-­ wood that was easy to sell; it was also the source of livelihood motivated initiative.« for Olivia’s family. Jairo Acosta Rodríguez, 47, is a city boy. Born and raised in Bogotá. None of it was good for the soil. Over-exploitation brought eroAs a lover of literature, Jairo admires Colombia’s Nobel laureate sion and when it rained, water no longer seeped away, it flowed Gabriel García Márquez. Yet there is one sentence penned by his down to the valley in torrents instead, taking along with it evfamous compatriot and author that he disagrees with. He says, erything in its path – leaves, insects, earth. There was nothing to »When Márquez writes that ‘the only thing you can change in stay for, not even for the animals. Once there had been pumas, this world is where you put your pillow,’ he’s wrong. And the jaguars, myriad different feathered species including birds of Cerro de Manjui is my best example of that.« prey, parrots and hummingbirds. They, too, disappeared and left just rabbits and opossums behind. Welcome to Bioparque La Reserva at the foot of the holy mountain. It is a place where consciousness is not only awakened, but also changed. That is what it means to thousands upon thousands of visitors every year, including school children and students from Bogotá. And particularly to Clariant employees who, CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 41 with their own two hands, breathed new life into the mountain’s »Even in a country where water is as abundant as Colombia, brutalized slopes. There, in an area overgrown by a kind of unwe’re losing a small river every single day,« she says. »We set up controllable scrub which had been choking out other life on the this project in an effort to counteract this trend. Apart from barren ground left behind by the big fire, more than 7 000 new Clariant we were also able to bring other Swiss organizations on plants can now be found growing in a nearly two-hectare space board for project implementation.« which is slowly starting to look more and more like the Colombian rainforest it once was. In the eyes of Olivia, who spends a Backed by the Colombian government, the concept is primarily large portion of her day on the veranda of her little grocery and based on calculating the »water footprint« of each and every tobacco store, this is akin to »a miracle.« On his weekly visits, company and its production facilities. This term not only refers Jairo Acosta always ascends the mountain first to watch it grow to direct, individual water use but also »virtual water« conand evolve while listening to a multitude of different birdcalls. sumption or, in other words, the amount of water used, evapoThey are back: Not all of them, but 47 different species have been rated or polluted to manufacture products. »The data collected counted and logged. He says that this project »changed how I helped us identify savings potential,« reports Diana Rojas Orjuela, look at nature and I’m glad we decided to participate in this pri»and these changes were implemented with the goal of achievvate-public effort.« ing sustainable water use.« Clariant partners involved in the »Pilot Project SuizAgua So much for the abstract, technical side. Change, however, begins Colombia« are Ivan Lozano Ortega, founder and director of the with individuals, in their day-to-day behavior, in their commuBioparque La Reserva foundation, as well as the Swiss Agency nities, in their personal surroundings. »Existence determines for Development and Cooperation (SDC) in Colombia, representconsciousness and it’s easier to destroy something than to build ed by Diana Rojas Orjuela. An energetic young woman, she has it up again,« reasons Ivan Lozano Ortega, the founder of dedicated her life not only to human rights efforts but also the Bioparque. »That’s why the project’s second phase focuses on SDC initiative to conserve global water resources, the »Global companies’ and employees’ intuitive perception of environmental Water Program«. and social responsibility in the communities where their production facilities are located.« 42 — AT THE BIOPARQUE LA RESERVA Employees, pupils, and students help to breathe fresh life into the scenery — DRIVING FORCES Ivan Ortega and Diana Rojas Orjuela appraise the progress made at the reserve Jairo Acosta Rodríguez calls that »learning a life lesson« and questions and evaluating their questionnaires, many of them thinks back to the days when they were doing hands-on work. are surprised to discover that »there’s room for improvement in »First they had to prepare the ground and dig out entire tree lots of areas of my life plus every product, even a simple t-shirt, stumps, including the roots, before they could even start doing stands for water consumption. We just weren’t aware of that.« the precisely-planned planting work. That was hard, physical labor, especially on the steeply sloped hillsides. Nevertheless and Participants learned responsible, sustainable behavior in a neardespite all the sore muscles, every one of the workers really ly effortless way and, at the end of the day, nobody was likely enjoyed it in the end and in the eyes of those who regularly went to go home and leave the water running while they brushed their out to dig between October 2011 and February 2012, the Cerro teeth. Jairo Acosta Rodríguez is pleased: »Of course it’s the trees de Manjui and the entire project are now a part of Clariant.« and shrubs that are so important here on the mountain. At the same time, though, this project that we’re sponsoring and helpWhat there is to see and what nobody wants to do without. ing to finance is also establishing an entirely new consciousness 45 Clariant employees are currently on site and ascending the in people’s minds.« mountain. This is the last of three groups from the plant that Ivan Ortega and Diana Orjuela invited for a visit to bring them To Olivia, who has always lived at the foot of the Cerro de Manup to date on the project’s current status and what will happen jui, that spells new hope. Paradoxically, she currently gets her next. Not only that, but this time everybody has been asked to fill water from Bogotá. Diana Rojas Orjuela promises, however, that out a detailed questionnaire to calculate their own personal the day will come »when the water flows again, when the small water footprint. stream returns. A start has been made and we’re certain that this project, involving Clariant and our other three corporate This questionnaire takes a general look at how people use water partners, will catch on throughout all of Colombia.« Jairo in their own bathrooms and kitchens as well as their »virtual Acosta Rodríguez adds: »So that means you can change more in water footprint« which is based on the water consumption hidthis world than just where you put your pillow.« den in everyday products such as textiles, paper, office supplies, electronics equipment and any energy used. After answering the CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 43 Lower energy consumption WITH EWATCH I  n 2013, the eWATCH program was expanded to also include A significant amount of energy can be saved if the moisture in the the new Business Area Functional Materials, which was creraw product can be reduced prior to the actual drying process, ated one year earlier as part of the takeover of Süd-Chemie something which is not easy, however. Nevertheless, a suitable drywithin the Clariant Group. The analysis focused on the er was found and, following the cost-efficient change of an upBusiness Area's largest and most energy-intensive site in Moosburg. stream process step, the moisture in the raw product can now be reThe process for the drying of bentonite products, where moisture duced to such an extent that the natural gas consumption of the had previously been extracted by means of convection drying, ofdryer itself can be reduced by around 15 %. Reducing the hot air disfered the greatest potential for savings. Possible areas of improvecharged by the dryer offers a further area of potential for improving ment as regards energy conservation were subsequently developed. energy efficiency. Here, energy is literally pumped out of the chimney and lost. The internal recirculation of part of this discharged air can reduce the amount of air discharged overall and thus significantly cut energy consumption. In the case of certain dryer models, the recirculation of discharged air can lead to a saving of around 20 % in the amount of natural gas used. This measure has already 44 Performance.People.Planet LOWER ENERGY CONSUMPTION been implemented and has been in operation since December 2013. The knowledge gained here will be transferred to the business arDuring the first half of 2014, the process will be monitored closely ea's other sites. In September 2013, a site in Mexico was reviewed and analyzed. A comparison of the current and old consumption accordingly. There is also similar potential in Mexico for individual figures will show the optimal level of efficiency and the actual enerdryers where discharged air is recirculated. However, greater pogy savings. Finally, the abovementioned dryers can also be integrattential was offered by a reduction in the level of moisture in the raw ed with combined heat and power (CHP) technology. Here, gas turproducts, an area which will require comprehensive conversion bines, which primarily produce electricity, are used during the measures. Upstream gas turbines could also be installed for the drygeneration of hot air. The hot air discharged by the turbines can be ers in Mexico. The costs for the required conversion measures fed to the dryers and used for the product-drying process. In the within the framework of these projects are currently being detercase of conventional energy-generating power stations, the waste mined. The results will then be relevant in equal measure for other heat usually remains unused and is released into the environment business areas; at the Frankfurt-Höchst site, for example, the possivia cooling towers. Independently of the eWATCH program, gas ble installation of upstream gas turbines for a dryer for color pigturbines of this kind are to be installed in the boiler house in Moosments is being examined. burg, as an old gas-fired boiler used for steam generation has to be replaced. In this context, a burner with upstream gas turbines, i.e. a CHP system, will be installed. This system will become operational in the second quarter of 2014. The gas turbines will then generate the required steam at the Moosburg site as well as up to 1.9 megawatt of electricity. INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS THAT ADDRESS GLOBAL MEGATRENDS Product Product name Use Frother Hydrocerol® Plastics used for certain applications such as car dashboards must be foamed in order to give them the required volume and stability. Thanks to an effective foaming agent from Clariant, significantly less plastic can now be used to achieve the same result. The means 20 % lighter plastic components. Cleaning polymer Texcare® Superior laundry can now be achieved without high temperatures. Fabrics no longer need to be treated at 60° Celsius to eliminate dirt, bacteria and germs, and thanks to a cutting-edge laundry detergent additive can now be washed at lower temperatures. Lowering the temperature of the laundry water from 60° to 30° reduces energy costs by 40 %. Methanol catalyst FCM 100 Substitute natural gas (SNG) can be produced in an environmentally compatible manner from hydrogen and CO2 generated using renewable energies. A catalyst from Clariant is used for this purpose. 2 800 t of CO2 are bound by producing 1.4 m3 of SNG in this way. Drying agent Container Dri® II Large quantities of humanitarian food supplies sent by ship regularly spoil en route due to moisture in the ambient air. An optimized drying agent from Clariant extracts water from the air so that rice or grains no longer decay or mold. Bioethanol sunliquid® Clariant has developed a procedure that can be used to produce a high-quality engine fuel from plant residues such as straw (i.e. non-foods). When burned, this fuel discharges 95 % less CO2 than conventional fossil energy sources. Textile dye Spin Dyeing Plastic fibers such as polyethylene are dyed in color baths as required after they are produced. This calls for energy and, above all, large amounts of water, and results in high volumes of wastewater that subsequently needs to be purified. Clariant offers a product whereby the color is not added to the fiber at a later stage, but rather is embedded in the plastic when the fiber is produced. This saves energy (minus 98 %) and water (minus 99.9 %) and reduces production times. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 45 Safer solutions IN THE PLASTICS INDUSTRY Performance.People.Planet SAFER SOLUTIONS C  l ariant supports its customers in the plastics industry in Lead chromate pigments are a further example. These are another complying with the strictest requirements in terms of issue for the plastics industry to focus on due to their known impact product characteristics and, in particular, product safeon health and the environment. Under REACH regulations, the ty, with regard to regulatory requirements and additional sale of lead chromate pigments will no longer be permitted in the industrial standards worldwide. In order to respond to these marEuropean Union without approval by the authorities from May ket needs, Clariant has developed pigments and polymer soluble dyes 2015. Clariant offers a well-established range of over 20 organic pigfulfilling legal regulations as well as industry-specific standards. ments covering the yellow and orange color space that are suitable One particular focus here is the reduction in halogen content in for replacing lead chromate pigments in a safe and cost-effective way. plastics applications, such as electronic devices, consumer goods, and toys. To this end, Clariant has developed a unique range of dyes, Clariant pigments, pigment preparations, and masterbatches are called the LHC (low halogen controlled) range. generally the first choice for companies for whom sustainability is a high priority due to their quality, purity, and high production stanThe 13 organic pigments and two polymer soluble dyes in the range dards. In food packaging or toys, for example, purity, reliability, and make it easier for customers to comply with the highest Internatraceability of raw materials play a key role. Clariant has the necestional Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards with regard to sary organization, and the knowledge to reliably deliver on its comhalogen-free products. The halogen content in these pigments is mitment to sustainability in companies and in its products. certified to be lower 500 ppm for bromine and chlorine (parts per million, here: 0.05 %) and is documented by Clariant in a certificate This ultimately relates not only to pigments, but to all Clariant of analysis. Clariant’s LHC dyes are also suitable for use in consumproducts for the plastics industry. Plastics play an important role in er goods and food packaging. The 15 products in the new range modern society, not least in resolving future challenges and probare marketed under the brand names PV Fast®, Graphtol®, Polysynlems. thren® and Solvaperm® with the »LHC« suffix indicating their low, controlled halogen content. With the launch of these LHC dyes, Clariant is supporting efforts to reduce halogen content in plastic goods and thus meet the strictest requirements. This innovation is part of Clariant’s strategy to satisfy social demands for the utmost product safety and recyclability. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 47 Sustainable relationships COMMON VALUES SHAPE THE COLLABORATION F  o  r a long time, procuring materials and services was largeFurther, these days procurement includes in its approach qualitative, ly »transaction-driven.« The main factors in the supplier innovation, and sustainable criteria such as emissions, water, waste selection process were price, commodity fluctuation, and safety, health and regulations, and ethics. In other words, there and labor cost. More recently, however, this approach has been a shift from cost to value. has been changing. Nowadays, procurement’s selection process incorporates not only supplier’s financial creditworthiness, but nonIn order to take this into account and optimize the value of its longfinancial factors as well and it is more based on a cooperative apterm procurement, Clariant has actively integrated all these criteria proach with suppliers – for example in research and development. in its supplier selection process. These include, for example, not Total cost of ownership and collaboration have grown much only the quality of the purchased materials and the safety of their stronger to the benefit of both parties. transportation, but also the recyclability of their packaging materials and the availability of what is known as its carbon footprint. Particular focus is given to sourcing raw materials from renewable sources that already account for about 10 % of Clariant’s total raw material purchases. 48 Performance.People.Planet SUSTAINABLE RELATIONSHIPS Clariant is pursuing this strategy through different initiatives with As part of Clariant’s Sustainability program, the company places infocus on fewer but better-performing suppliers. By jointly deploycreasing value on risk and waste avoidance, cost reduction, reing sustainability programs with its suppliers, Clariant is not only source efficiency, and growth through innovation. In order to build acting responsibly, but also securing long-term cost competitivelong-lasting sustainability programs, Clariant is putting higher emness of its supplies while protecting the environment and its busiphasis on suppliers that are and expected to remain long-term partness alike. This is particularly the case in growth regions such as ners. Clariant is heavily engaging with its suppliers to review mutuAsia. al commitments and expectations in sustainability. As time goes by, suppliers are becoming more and more eager to be integral part of Through the programs and efforts outlined above, Clariant has unthe process and support Clariant’s objectives and aspirations. To dertaken a »shift« in prioritization as far as its supplier selection support this deployment, Clariant employees are trained in countryprocess is concerned. In fact, while criteria such as price, service, specific and sustainability issues through ad-hoc programs. and logistics remain most relevant, sustainability aspects such as frequency of complaints, safety standards, a certified management system, the existence of supplier's sustainability program and publication of information on sustainability, get greater significance. In the end, this progress enables Clariant itself to produce goods and services more sustainably. Less packaging through new ideas ECOPACK C  o  sts relating to the packaging, interim storage and in place and protect it from moisture and damage. ECOPACK in transport of goods to be delivered constitute a sigaddition optimizes space for transportation and storage, benificant item at Clariant. At the Frankfurt-Höchst cause the compact ECOPACKs have smaller volumes than single site alone, packaging costs in 2012 amounted to a packages. This allows more products to be transported per ship total of around CHF 3m. These led to activities to optimize or truck, reducing the number of journeys. Since ECOPACKs expenditures, and to contribute to sustainability. are also used in our internal packaging, both Clariant and our customers benefit from this sustainable solution. The fruits of these efforts can be seen, for example, in »ECOPACKs«, used to ship pigments wherever possible. Prior to this, Replacing the cardboard boxes has reduced the packaging mapigments were filled into paper bags, which in turn were packed terial and resulting waste generated by 45 %. ECOPACK also separately or in pairs in cardboard boxes. This method involved makes better use of transport and storage capacities. The resulta lot of work, considerable packaging materials, significant costs ing increase in efficiency lowers direct and indirect emissions for waste and inappropriate working situations for the customof greenhouse gasses per transported ton by 25 %. Finally, these er, e.g. as each box had to be cut, emptied, and discarded sepameasures also help reducing costs. After a successful pilot phase rately. ECOPACK, by contrast, places a stable cardboard tub on and implementation at a site in Frankfurt, Germany, ECOPACK wooden pallets onto which the pigment bags can then be is now being introduced globally for all products and producstacked. Another stable cardboard tub is then used to cover the tion lines of Business Unit Pigments. stack. Finally the product is then shrink-wrapped to secure it CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 49 sunliquid® MOBILITY FROM PLANT RESIDUES B  iofuels not only help to conserve valuable fossil fuels, they sunliquid®20 is 20 % cellulosic ethanol, showing reductions in also improve the greenhouse gas balance thanks to their greenhouse gas emissions of around 20 % with consistent engine much lower CO2 potential. Clariant has now developed power. A high octane number (RON) of over 100 guarantees optian efficient and innovative procedure that does not use mal efficiency. The fleet test is intended to demonstrate the fuel is edible parts of plants, but the leftovers from grain production. sunready for market and technically compatible in series vehicles. It liquid® uses modern biotechnology to convert straw, for example, will show that second-generation biofuels based on agricultural into an equally valuable, sustainable and climate-friendly product: residues are now technologically ready and available, not only in high-quality ethanol. The cellulosic ethanol produced by this proproduction but in application as well. cess is a second-generation biofuel distinguished by an outstanding climate balance, without competing against land use and nutrition. The cellulosic ethanol comes from Clariant’s sunliquid® demonstration plant at Straubing, where approximately 4 500 metric tons of Together with Mercedes-Benz, one of the world’s biggest car manuagricultural residues such as grain straw or corn stover are convertfacturers, and Haltermann, a leading producer of high-performance ed into cellulosic ethanol each year. At the Haltermann plant, the hydrocarbons, Clariant is launching a twelve-month sunliquid® bioethanol is mixed with selected components to form the innovafield test in January 2014. Clariant’s sunliquid® process will be used tive fuel, the specifications of which reflect potential European to turn wheat straw into cellulosic ethanol. Haltermann will then E20 fuel quality. The test fleet vehicles are then filled with the new mix the sunliquid®20 cellulosic ethanol with conventional gasoline fuel at a specially equipped gas station on the Mercedes-Benz site components to create a new fuel. The production of cellulosic ethain Stuttgart-Untertürkheim. nol is virtually CO2 neutral, producing 95 % less CO2 emissions than gasoline. 50 In my real LIFE 6 employees – 6 views Photography Jo Röttger, Text Hans Borchert In my real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS VICTOR GARCÍA, 56 PROJECT MANAGEMENT BLACK BELT, SANTA CLARA SITE, MEXICO Your career can also be your calling. Just like it is for Victor García. Not only does this chemical engineer have decades of experience, he also wears the »Black Belt« of Clariant’s Excellence initiative and joins French politician André Malraux in saying: »Whoever wishes to read the future has to leaf through the past.« Victor García is a »Black Belt« in project management according to the Six Sigma concept, a methodical approach that is aimed at optimizing economic and environmental processes. »The Santa Clara site, that’s my world,« says García. After nearly twenty five years at the site, he knows the plant inside out and considers himself, more than ever, duty bound to »the environment and future generations.« His creed reflects that conviction: »If we don’t do the right thing and take responsibility for our actions, then it’s all over for us and our planet.« Victor García was born in Oaxaca and has the blood of the Zapotec, Mixtec and Aztec tribes flowing through his veins. His facial features, dark skin and black hair leave no doubt as to the fact that he is the progeny of a culture dating back to 1 500 B.C.; that might also be one of the reasons why he is repeatedly drawn back to the significant showplaces of his own ethnic history. »I’m especially fascinated by the pyramids of Teotihuacan,« says this father of two sons. »When I’m there, I always ask myself: What will bear witness to our presence here someday?« Apart from his professional qualifications, he has two qualities that help him shape a better, more sustainable future. Those are his willpower, which he acquired through karate training (brown belt), and the endurance of a passionate marathon runner. He knows many stretches of asphalt, including New York City’s, and long-distance running teaches him over and over to »think positive and, above all, keep on going – until the finish line.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 53 In my real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS RUBÉN JUÁREZ, 41 HEAD OF BU INDUSTRIAL & CONSUMER SPECIALTIES, MEXICO Time to rethink things. In Mexico, too. Rubén Juárez is fascinated by the »ecological awakening« his society is undergoing, the transformation in how people are thinking, the new behaviors they are adopting in day-to-day life. For him, riding a public city bike through his home quarter of Colonia Roma is only natural and his wife knows each and every one of the many new organic stores. »But,« says Ruben, »we still have a long way to go in the Mexico City metro area, home to 23 million people.« His work at Clariant is the best yardstick for how quickly fundamental changes can be brought about. There he is in charge of ICS and that is where he experiences paradigm shifts on a daily basis. He knows all about the needs of large, multinational customers who place great importance on safe, resource-friendly manufacturing methods for the special chemicals they require. For them, he implements production processes in accordance with their own corporate sustainability specifications while also making the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) guidelines of Clariant’s own sites compulsory for all suppliers. »Nowadays the determining factor isn’t just price alone,« says Rubén Juárez, »it’s all about quality and overall performance.« Represented not only by Santa Clara, but the Coatzacoalcos site, in particular, which was expanded between 2010 and 2012. This port in the Mexican state of Veracruz is a key ICS production site, »exemplary in every respect – from safety to cost effectiveness to its state-of-the-art equipment and efficient energy management.« Its biggest environmental asset might be the two-kilometer stretch of railway tracks. They lead directly to the site’s supplier of raw materials. This new arrangement has dispensed with the need for hazardous materials transports to Mexico City, along 600 kilometers of track and in part through densely populated regions, which used to be the norm. And one more thing makes »Coatza« stand out. Construction left flora and fauna largely untouched. The beneficiary of that approach is currently an alligator that lives in a biotope on the site. »Extremely symbolic« for Rubén in the sense of striking a balance between man and nature. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 55 In my real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS PAULO ITAPURA DE MIRANDA, 54 HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY & REGULATORY AFFAIRS, CLARIANT LATAM Willpower alone is not enough: Sustainability efforts also call for a financial commitment. »It’s not a self-seller,« stresses Paulo Itapura de Miranda, »and it most definitely isn’t a simple matter of expenses. In fact, it’s a sensible investment in the future.« Building on that premise, this former company doctor works continuously to advocate sustainability and luckily knows that he’s not alone. On the contrary, his support comes from the very top because »Clariant’s Group management holds the work we do for the environment, health and safety in high esteem. They support us in every conceivable way.« Nevertheless, the task is an ambitious one. Particularly in Latin America which is, as Paulo Itapura says, »a huge, very heterogeneous region.« Whether the differences are social, economic, cultural or linguistic in nature – they need »binding ESHA standards at a high level for all of our sites.« And this needs to start with a direct line of communication to municipal committees (keyword: transparency) and extend all the way to coordinated emergency management procedures. Itapura and his team (80 employees throughout all of Latin America) drew up a road map that helps minimize environmental risks, makes it possible to protect not just individuals but the general public, as well, and also »makes it clear that we’re not alone, rather that each and every one of us has a responsibility. Responsibility not only for their own wellbeing but also that of the company and its stakeholders.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 57 In my real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS MICHELE GARCÍA, 30 HUMAN RESOURCE ANALYST, SUZANO SITE, BRAZIL With people, for people, among people – it all boils down to people: If you ask Michele García, nothing is more exciting than being human. And for this psychologist with a master’s degree in Human Resources Administration, she, is the very best example of how vibrant life can be. Just recently she slipped into a new role and is now mother to a little girl. According to her, »that’s a whole new kind of experience. Just as much an obligation as it is fulfillment.« The same holds true for her career, as well. Her desk stands in the HR offices of Clariant’s Suzano site. There she spends her days managing job postings and applications, conducting interviews and trying to find out whether candidates meet all the requirements. It goes without saying that she not only looks at a person’s qualifications and ability to work in a team, but also factors in issues such as, personal integrity, and respect for other people. »Clariant’s core values lay the foundation for my work. When recruiting new employees as well as at training sessions,« Michele García emphasizes and adds: »My message is also our vision: Clariant is a company that welcomes you. It values your work and your contribution and if you want to do your very best, you can do it here. We, as a company, are also at your side at all times.« That last sentence is underpinned by her own experience; when Michele’s mother fell seriously ill, the company assisted her in every conceivable way. A sense of tact and a charming personality help Michele García build bridges in conflict situations and reach a common accord. You have to address things objectively and resolve issues jointly – that is her pragmatic approach. »I have a good feel for people.« Is the company like family? »Yes, precisely. In Suzano we share a great sense of solidarity. That’s a feeling I get quite frequently on the weekend. Sometimes I’m in town, shopping or something, and happen to bump into a colleague – we spontaneously decide to sit down to a cup of coffee. That amazes my husband Mauricio because it just wouldn’t happen where he works in São Paulo.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 59 In my real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS CENIA DEL PILAR MACIAS LOZADA, 47 BU PIGMENTS First a word about home. »I love my Colombia,« says Cenia del Pilar Lozada. »Hardly any other country in the world has more exotic plants, animals and landscapes than we do. That’s why I promote striking a balance between economic growth and environmental protection. We need this balance and have to think about future generations. After all, we’re not alone on this planet.« That’s just how she is: clear, committed, feisty. A woman who cuts her own path and proves herself in a field supposedly dominated by men. Mathematics, chemistry, physics – those were Cenia’s favorite subjects at school in Barrancabermeja where she and her five siblings grew up. She was the only one to leave the city where they were born, completed her studies as a chemical engineer, launched her professional laboratory career, made her mark as a broker of chemical products and, in doing so, discovered her passion for sales because »sales is about people.« Colors are her subject matter. And have been for 19 years. That is how long she has been at Clariant where, in the BU Pigments, she is now in charge of not just Central America but Venezuela and Ecuador, as well. Some of her favorite products include the new easily dispersible pigments. Particularly since this innovation ushered in numerous sustainable effects: lower energy consumption, less use of machines, shorter production times, greater flexibility, considerable cost savings while also providing »an excellent product.« Salespeople love stories like these. They are about progress, about ingenuity. Cenia composes the accompanying text on her many business trips throughout the region and on her mountain bike. She is a role model to her two daughters, Sofia, 13, and Juliana, 11: athletic, competent and perfectly organized. »The latter, in particular,« she says, and gives her long, black hair a shake. »That’s where women have an advantage over men. Children, household, family, work – we manage to keep it all under control pretty well. And we do so without having to sacrifice our femininity.« Anybody who sees her is sure to say: »How true.« CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 61 In my real Life 6 EMPLOYEES – 6 VIEWS ANTONIO ESCOBAR, 47 HEAD OF LBL, MASTERBATCHES COLOMBIA Life is full of colors. At least Antonio Escobar’s life is. This chemical engineer with an MBA in business administration works with tiny color granules he is Clariant’s »Mister Masterbatches« in Colombia. His private life is also full of color: the »entirely organic« peaches and plums he cultivates during his free time are not only a true treat for the eyes but a delicacy, too. Antonio Escobar studied at the University of America in Bogotá, at the foot of the famous Monserrate mountain (3 152 m), and has been working for Clariant since 1998. After getting his start in Colombia, he transferred to Mexico for six years where he gained sales management experience in the BU Masterbatches for Mexico and Central American countries. »It was a fantastic opportunity that only a multinational company could offer, and if there’s one thing that holds true for Clariant – regardless of country or market – it’s that we enjoy great trust and renown the whole world over.« If you ask Antonio Escobar, Clariant’s position as a »global masterbatch leader« not only bears witness to »our products’ quality and our innovative strength« but also to the Clariant Production System (CPS program) which is geared toward sustainability. The key words of this best practice method are: »How and where can we improve? What can be optimized, how can we boost our savings potential in terms of water or power consumption?« Antonio Escobar’s desk stands in Cota, near Bogotá. Clariant’s Colombia site is Latin America’s second-largest masterbatches production facility and supplies Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and the Caribbean countries in addition to its own domestic market. Another focus of Antonio’s is Brazil, yet for entirely personal reasons. His daughter Camilla, 13, is a gifted swimmer and is currently preparing to take a stab at meeting the Colombian qualifying standards for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. »She’s already on the extended national team,« Antonio boasts with fatherly pride. As you can see, his life will stay exciting. And colorful. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 63 GRI Content REPORT ON SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT IN 2013 66 I. Social Responsibility 93 Wastewater 94 Generated waste 67 Far-reaching voluntary commitment 95 Transport and packaging material 68 International efforts 96 Impact of activities on nature 68 Dealing with the consequences of climate change 98 Environmental impact of products and services 69 Reacting rapidly to climate change 99 Rise in expenditure on and investments in 69 Relentless support for human rights environmental protection 70 Social responsibility 70 Avoiding corruption 99 V. Health and Safety 72 Breaches of the Code of Conduct 100 Test more intelligently, act ethically 72 II. Governance 101 Intensive efforts to ensure occupational safety 103 Continued success of AvoidingAccidents@Clariant 73 Balanced management structure 104 Health takes top priority 74 Management personnel 74 The Sustainability Council 105 VI. Sustainability in the supply chain 75 Management's role in shaping sustainability policy 76 Monitoring sustainability efforts 105 Broad range of suppliers 77 Reporting to management 106 Global sales markets 78 Evaluation and development of corporate performance 106 Sustainability check on suppliers 78 Management pay 107 Code of Conduct for Suppliers 79 Financial assistance received from the government 108 Globally diversified procurement 80 Use of existing expertise 80 Shareholder and employee recommendations 109 VII. Product Responsibility 80 III. Company & Organization Profile 111 VIII. Personnel Development 111 Portfolio optimization affects the workforce 84 IV. Nature and the Environment 113 Initial and continuing vocational training 85 Lower resource requirements 113 Family policy 85 Energy and energy consumption falling 115 Addressing demographic change 87 Very successful energy saving measures 116 Diversity and equal opportunities 88 Listening out for leaks 117 Wages and minimum pay 88 Clariant continues ISO 50001 certification process 117 No sex discrimination on pay 88 Airborne emissions 118 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations 92 Water and water use 118 Beschwerden gegen die Arbeitspraxis 92 Water as a scarce resource CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 65 Report on sustainable MANAGEMENT IN 2013 I. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Clariant has signed the Responsible Care® Global Charter, which Clariant assumes ethical responsibility for sustainable, economic, was developed by the International Council of Chemical Associations ecological and fair business practices. This responsibility forms an (ICAA). Compliance with this charter is monitored. The Charter integral part of the company's philosophy. All Clariant employees is a voluntary commitment by the chemical industry worldwide to are educated and trained to assume responsibility in line with their pursue continual improvement in the fields of environment, health function, level of authority and qualifications. The certified manand safety. By the end of 2011, 159 companies had signed this Charagement system takes account of all the relevant internal and exterter. The key components of the Responsible Care® Global Charter nal standards and provides Clariant with a documented structural for companies are: framework on which to build its objectives and programs. · Adoption of the international Responsible Care® principles; · Implementation of the key points of the national Responsible Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration requires that countries take a Care® programs; precautionary approach, according to their capabilities, in order to · Commitment to promoting sustainable development; protect the environment. Thus measures to prevent environmental · Continual improvement of the company’s performance in this degradation must not be postponed where there are threats of (seriregard and relevant reporting; ous or irreversible) environmental damage. Nevertheless, such · Improvement of chemical products worldwide with regard to measures should not pose an excessive financial burden. After all, product responsibility; Principle 15 of the declaration combines environmental protection · Commitment to increasing acceptance of the Charter within with a cost-benefit analysis. Clariant has applied this principle to the chemical industry; the company. In order to protect the environment, the precaution· Active support of national and local Responsible Care® ary approach is applied accordingly. monitoring processes; · Identification of interest groups’ expectations of the chemical In view of the threat of considerable or irreversible damage, the industry; and lack of complete scientific certainty should not be a reason to post· Allocation of sufficient resources to effectively implement pone cost-effective measures for preventing damage to the environResponsible Care®. ment. The European REACH regulation on the testing and approval of chemicals is based on this precautionary principle. Furthermore, Clariant had signed the UN Global Compact by mid-2013. The Unitthe Clariant Group continuously and systematically assesses every ed Nations Global Compact is a strategic initiative for companies optimization opportunity for reducing environmental impact at that voluntarily commit to ensuring that their business activities more than 200 plants worldwide. These opportunities are then anaand strategies are in line with ten universally recognized principles lyzed and prioritized according to their urgency, evidence and relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection relevance, and subsequently implemented to the extent possible. and the fight against corruption. In this way the economy, as an important driving force in globalization, can help ensure that all economic regions and societies benefit from the development of markets and trading relations, technology and finance. 66 Report on sustainable management in 2013 By becoming a signatory, Clariant has underscored its comprehenFar-reaching voluntary commitment sive commitment to sustainable development and responsible corClariant sets itself extremely high standards in order to satisfy its porate governance. Clariant pledges that, within its sphere of influcustomers' demands in a profitable manner and meet its stakeholdence, it will vouchsafe human rights, create working conditions that ers' expectations as far as possible. At the same time, its employees at the very least meet the legal requirements, protect the environare always looking for ways to improve their performance. In order ment and combat corruption. The company recognizes and confirms to be as effective in this as possible, Clariant has adopted a set of that these principles will form the framework with which it will in overriding corporate values and defined a Code of Conduct. the future align its strategy, corporate culture and daily work. Clariant · Disciplined performance management provides clear direction views joining the UN Global Compact as the logical extension of and challenging yet attainable objectives. As part of this, all its sustainability activities and reporting. Membership also enables employees are required to provide open feedback on the relevant it to exchange information and ideas with other stakeholders on progress made. how to continue expanding its own sustainability efforts. · In order to be able to keep its promises, Clariant places its faith in independent employees who take full advantage of their skills. Finally, Clariant expressly supports the United Nations' Universal As a result, care must be taken not to promise too much nor, most Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), also known as the UN Huimportantly, to achieve too little. man Rights Charter. This declaration defines the general principles · A bold and decisive management team supports the employees' of human rights as the joint goal of all peoples and nations so that willingness to take risks and accepts wrong decisions. However, every individual and all authorities constantly strive to teach and we must learn from our mistakes. Clariant therefore chooses the nurture respect for these rights and freedoms, and take progressive best people for the right jobs. national and international steps to ensure they are recognized and · Clariant wants to live by its values. That means strengths are upheld not only generally but also in practice. recognized and possible improvements are discussed. Superior and outstanding contributions are rewarded accordingly. · Clariant ensures the well-being of all interest groups, protects the environment and respects the social framework within which it operates. Security procedures are never curtailed and the Code of Conduct is put into practice. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 67 Since 2007 the Clariant Code of Conduct has defined a set of rules Engineering and Biotechnology (Dechema), the European Associaand principles that are binding for all employees to protect the tion for Bioindustries (EuropaBio), the German Chemical Society company's reputation and keep the risks to shareholders to an abso(GDCh), the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) and the EFB Section lute minimum. The Code of Conduct prohibits employees from on Applied Biocatalysts (ESAB) of the European Federation of Bioengaging in any activity that could cause a conflict of interest. It also technology. In addition, Clariant or its national companies are repforbids bribery and corruption, insider trading, antitrust behavior resented in various national interest groups, e.g. the Business and money-laundering. Embezzlement, the disclosure of confidenAssociation Chemistry Pharma Biotech (scienceindustries) in Swittial information, and the misappropriation of company property zerland, the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers are likewise strictly prohibited. Last but not least, employees may in China (AICM), the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) not damage the environment through their behavior, discriminate or the American Chemical Council (ACC) in the USA. It is also against, bother or harass colleagues in any other way. worth noting Clariant’s efforts on behalf of sustainability within the scope of the International Chamber of Commerce or in topic-related All employees receive the Code of Conduct when they are hired, committees such as ECETOC (European Center for Ecotoxicology and must agree to it when signing their contract of employment. and Toxicology of Chemicals). Existing Clariant employees are obliged to attend e-learning sessions. Participation in these training courses, which address various Dealing with the consequences of climate change issues within the Code of Conduct, is logged and employees who To date, Clariant has been unable to detect any noteworthy effect fail to attend are reprimanded. The Code is available in all three climate change may have had on its business, whether of a physical, Swiss national languages. Non-attendance is punished. regulatory, or financial nature. Nevertheless, Clariant is painfully aware of this issue and has set itself priorities by making sustainInternational efforts ability an integral part of its corporate strategy, regardless of ecoClariant is involved in numerous interest groups and associations, nomic or seasonal fluctuations and exceptionals. Significantly remost notably the International Council of Chemical Associations ducing air emissions is an integral part of Clariant's planning and (ICCA), the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) and the investment strategy. Clariant's defined environmental targets for European Technology Platform for Sustainable Chemistry (Sus2020 expressly include clear cuts in emissions of CO2 and other Chem). The objective of SusChem is to promote and facilitate ingreenhouse gases. creased sustainability in the areas of research, development and innovation in European chemicals and biotechnology companies. SusChem is a joint initiative of Cefic, the Society for Chemical 68 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Reacting rapidly to climate change Climate change results in challenges as well as opportunities that affect every company. Emissions of greenhouse gases are a key factor in determining climate change. Emissions must be reduced significantly to limit rising temperatures After all, the issue of climate change, which has been the focus of and the consequent inestimable impact on Man and the endiscussion in recent years, has led to greater environmental awarevironment. Clariant offers solutions for meeting the chalness and an increase in the demand for sustainable products, even lenges presented by climate change by improving efficiency in the area of specialty chemicals. As long as the market is willing to and through product innovations. For instance, Clariant is pay a higher price for these products, which is often the case, facilitating the increased use of renewable energy thanks to Clariant sees definite growth potential in this area in the coming years. a novel development in the sustainable production of cellulose ethanol from agricultural waste. But Clariant's climate Beyond this Clariant does not seek to increase its revenues by exceedstrategy also takes account of other business targets. These ing the legally stipulated reductions in CO2 emissions. Although include not only product innovation and product differentiClariant has established an internal organization for trading emisation but also portfolio management, technological innovasions in accordance with the official regulations on the European tion, responsibility toward suppliers and customers, reductrade in emission certificates, Clariant has neither bought nor sold ing (relative) greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with any certificates thus far. Any surpluses in other words, lowerScope 1 (direct emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions) than-permitted emissions have simply been »put on ice« rather as well as performance tracking and the logging and reportthan being sold. ing of greenhouse gas emissions. Relentless support for human rights Clariant places great emphasis on upholding human rights within Sustainability-oriented management considerably enhances proits sphere of influence. A number of internal regulations as well as ductivity and international competitiveness. At the same time, susClariant's voluntary commitments in accordance with international tainable management reduces the impact on people, the environcharters are designed to safeguard these rights. ment and resources. The value that it generates over the medium to long term also benefits Clariant’s shareholders and satisfies the Once again, Clariant is not aware of any activity, work-related incineeds and demands of the capital markets. dents or business transactions in the company in this reporting year which are the focus of investigations concerning the violation of Climate change brings opportunities and risks in equal measure. human rights. This is why Clariant has not yet provided any such Clariant takes account of both current and future conditions and is training in the field of human rights. No claims of discrimination constantly making appropriate changes and investments to reduce were reported to Clariant in the reporting period. Of the three cases climate-critical emissions, for instance. Business opportunities for reported in the previous year two could be resolved in the course Clariant lie in the development of innovative products which, for of the year, one is still open. Clariant is not aware of any cases inexample, require fewer and fewer materials and a greater proporvolving the violation of the rights of indigenous peoples. tion of renewable materials and are produced by processes that consume less and less energy. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 69 Clariant currently has no Group-wide notification and reporting Clariant's activities as an employer, as a consumer of local products system for legal action or complaints with respect to human-rights and services, as well as a payer of taxes and fees in the respective violations. Nevertheless, the planning for such a global system comregions or countries support local economic development, especialmenced in 2011, and in 2012 Clariant began introducing a formal ly in emerging economies. Clariant thus raises the living standards system for recording claims of human-rights violations. A central of the population in each area, both directly and indirectly, by creatpoint of contact was set up to receive complaints from employees ing added value. Clariant is not aware of any significant negative so that relevant reports could be accepted anonymously. In 2013, effects on local communities as a result of its activities. Clariant received no internal complaints of breaches of humanrights issues. In the 2013 reporting period, Clariant for the first time began systematically keeping a central log of all donations and expenditure Similarly, as part of freedom of association Clariant respects the related to its corporate citizenship activities. According to our iniright of entitled employees to join unions and to be represented by tial findings, expenditure was in the single-digit millions, about half representatives of these unions internally and externally in accorof which was used for sponsorship, and a quarter each for donadance with the prevailing national or local laws and practices. Clariant tions to charity and local infrastructure (also see the article »Planet knows of no cases in which freedom of association or the right – working for nature« page 40 – 43 of this report). to collective bargaining have been seriously jeopardized or even breached – not even by suppliers. Avoiding corruption Corruption risks are investigated as part of the ongoing internal auSocial responsibility diting of Clariant. As a result of these investigations, some contracts At Clariant, sustainability does not focus on individual showcase with business partners have, in the past, been terminated, not exprojects; the company is actively committed to the common good in tended, or amended accordingly as a precaution. In the future, we each and every location in which the Group operates, acting with intend to conduct a systematic corruption risk analysis within the corporate responsibility in all its activities. Clariant is involved in company with outside assistance. The pilot project for this, originumerous projects in the vicinity of the various production sites, in nally scheduled to take place in 2012, was postponed for organizaparticular in emerging markets. Systematic logging of all Clariant’s tional reasons. global relief work will be initiated from 2013 onward (also see the section entitled »Global social activities« on page 13 of this report as well as the relevant information on the Clariant website at www.clariant.com). 70 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Clariant continued conducting training throughout the entire orgaWithin a month of their employment they are sent an invitation to nization in the year under review – specifically also in relation to take part in the first e-learning course (on the Code of Conduct). possible cases of corruption. The fight against corruption is being Then, within a month of completing the first training course they addressed in e-learning sessions and in-person meetings, with all are invited to take part in the second course (on conflicts of interClariant employees belonging to the target group of one of the two est). training types. More than 95 % of employees who have an e-mail address have completed an e-learning course addressing the Code Compliance with worldwide anti-corruption legislation is an essenof Conduct, including the fight against corruption; slightly more tial part of Clariant's understanding of sustainability. For this reathan 92 % of employees with an e-mail address have completed an son, Clariant has set up a Group Compliance Committee and Regione-learning course focusing on conflicts of interest. al Compliance Committees. These bodies monitor compliance with the Code of Conduct and pursue and punish all identified cases of THE REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN E-LEARNING non-compliance. Compliance officers in the regions are available to SESSIONS in % the relevant workforce to answer all questions on this issue. Code of Conduct Conflict of Interest e-learning course e-learning course If corruption is suspected, Compliance and the Internal Audit DeGreater China 100 96 partment will carry out an investigation, with the help of specialist Japan 98 96 third parties, if necessary. The Group Compliance Committee (in India 96 95 the case of non-compliance relating to the Group) or the Regional Asia/Pacific 95 91 Compliance Committees assess the findings of the investigation Europe 97 92 and order disciplinary or other measures against culpable employMiddle East/Africa 96 91 ees, which may also lead to the termination of employment. North America 94 90 Latin America 96 92 If the corruption was caused by or with the involvement of third Participation of employees with e-mail address in general compliance e-learning courses parties such as agents, distributors, advisers or suppliers, etc. the business relationship with the culpable third party will be termiRegular circulars from management and offers of compliance-relatnated immediately and not taken up again. Further organizational ed training on the intranet always point to the serious consequences adjustments will be ordered by the relevant compliance committee of corruption and bribery and repeatedly remind employees about the if required in order to prevent similar cases in future. relevant guidelines and structures at Clariant. New employees are required to take part in two e-learning courses on compliance (provided they have Internet access at the workplace). CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 71 Breaches of the Code of Conduct In the year in question, Clariant was not aware of any complaints by Of the 32 reported breaches of the Code of Conduct in 2013, there interest groups or institutions at the relevant locations regarding was a suspicion of corruption in six cases. Two of these six claims issues of public or social concern. For this reason there is no formal are still being investigated, while the investigations of the other procedure in place for dealing with such complaints. Nevertheless, four cases have been completed. As a result of these, two Clariant interest groups may contact the managers of the relevant Clariant employees were dismissed and one supplier was issued with a location at any time. Bodies also exist to deal with specific issues, e.g. warning. There were no legal proceedings against Clariant or its works councils in Germany, which address workforce concerns. employees for alleged corruption. In the year in review Clariant began setting up an online whistleNone of the national companies made donations to parties, politiblower hotline to enable various stakeholders (employees, suppliers or cians or associated institutions. The Anti-Bribery and Corruption other interested parties) to issue complaints – even anonymously. (ABC) and Corporate Citizenship Activities (CCA) policies developed in the reporting period and agreed in the following year exII. GOVERNANCE plicitly prohibit donations to political parties. The CCA procedure Clariant’s corporate governance principles define the managerial promotes Group-wide transparency with regard to donations (constructure, organization and processes of the Clariant Group in ortributions, sponsorship or other kinds) to charitable causes. It der to provide transparency and guarantee sustainable long-term is therefore not necessary to record donations to political parties. success. The Group is committed to Swiss and international standards of corporate governance and follows the rules set out in the Clariant was not aware of any cases in the year under review in Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance and by SIX which Clariant was accused of not having acted essentially in comSwiss Exchange. Clariant conducts its business in compliance with pliance with laws, regulations and voluntary codes of practice. the applicable laws and rules of free competition and rejects corConsequently, no corresponding fines or non-monetary penalties for ruption in any form. Clariant avoids conflicts of interest and ensures failure to comply with legal regulations are known either. Clariant that corporate assets are not misused. Clariant strives for sustainattaches particular importance to fair interaction with competitors, ability in all areas and at every process level. The Articles of Associsuppliers and customers. In the year under review there were no ation, the Organizational Group Regulations of the Board of Direclegal cases of anti-competitive conduct, the forming of cartels or tors and the Clariant Code of Conduct can be viewed online at monopolies nor legal action or complaints concerning compliance www.governance.clariant.com. Extensive information can also be with legal provisions on unfair competition. In 2013, Clariant did found in the 2013 Clariant Annual Report. not have to pay significant fines or suffer non-monetary penalties for failure to comply with legal regulations on the environment. 72 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Balanced management structure The Chairman of the Board of Directors is independent. His only The Board of Directors of Clariant Ltd is the highest managerial relationship to Clariant, aside from the fact that he is also a sharebody, and consists of a minimum of six and a maximum of twelve holder of Clariant Ltd, is his role as Chairman of the Board of members that will have to be re-elected on a yearly basis after Directors. Neither he nor any person related to him is employed by adoption of the Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation in ListClariant or a company that does business with Clariant or is affiliated Stock Companies (»VegüV«) from 1st January 2014 (until 2013 ed through a consultancy or similar agreement. the term of office was three years). Re-election is possible. The Board of Directors consists of the Chairman, one or more Vice ChairThe Chairman’s Committee comprises the Chairman, the Vice men and the other members. The Board of Directors selects from Chairman and two other members of the Board of Directors. The within its ranks the members of the Chairman’s Committee, ComChairman's Committee prepares the meetings of the Board of pensation Committee, Audit Committee and Technology & InnovaDirectors and meets as needed. It makes decisions on financial and tion Committee. With introduction of the above mentioned ordiother matters delegated by the Board of Directors in accordance nance the compensation committee is also elected by the general with the bylaws of the Board of Directors. It also makes decisions assembly from 1st January 2014. on matters that would normally be handled by the Board of Directors but cannot be postponed. The Chairman's Committee draws up Until the end of the reporting year the Board of Directors appointprinciples for the selection of candidates for election or re-election ed the Chairman, Vice Chairman and the members of the committo the Board of Directors and for the office of CEO, and prepares tees. From 1st January 2014 the VegüV prescribes that the President the corresponding recommendations. Further, the Chairman’s Comof the Board and the Members of the Compensation Committee mittee considers and submits to the Board of Directors the CEO’s have to be elected by the General Assembly. The Board of Directors proposals concerning candidates for Executive Committee positions. meets at least once a quarter. The CEO, CFO and other members of the Executive Committee and/or other employees or third parties The Board of Directors has delegated the executive management of regularly attend the meetings of the Board of Directors at the invithe Clariant Group to the CEO and the other members of the Executation of the Chairman for the purpose of reporting or imparting intive Committee. The Executive Committee is mainly responsible formation. Each committee has a written charter outlining its dufor implementing and monitoring group strategy, for the financial ties and responsibilities. The committees report on their activities and operational management of the Group, and for the efficiency of and results to the Board of Directors. They also prepare the busithe Group’s structure and organization. The members of the Execuness of the Board of Directors in their assigned areas. tive Committee are appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Chairman’s Committee. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 73 The Executive Committee consists of the CEO, the CFO and two The Sustainability Council other members, and meets at regular intervals. It uses external Clariant is committed to acting ethically and sustainably in all of its meetings to discuss business performance with the management of business activities. This includes a wide range of tasks. In order to the local companies in person. Only one member of the Executive be able to evaluate and guide all sustainability efforts centrally and Committee, the CEO, may also be a member of the Board of Direcas efficiently and effectively as possible at every level of the organitors. All the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive zation, Clariant has delegated key structural and control issues reCommittee are male. lated to sustainability to a Sustainability Council. This Council involves all Business Units in order to promote the sustainable deManagement personnel velopment of business activities in line with the holistic approach In 2013, the Board of Directors of Clariant consisted of three Swiss of Clariant’s sustainability policy. citizens, three German citizens, one British, one Austrian and one US/Swiss citizen. The members of the committees were members The Council evaluates global challenges and megatrends, sets the of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee consisted of company’s medium and long-term objectives and initiates sustainfour German citizens. The members of the Board of Directors were ability projects and activities accordingly. The Council appoints ad all at least 44 years old and the members of the Executive Commithoc and permanent working groups for special projects that form tee were all at least 49 years old. Clariant has not introduced any part of Clariant’s sustainability activities. Additional tasks of the Counspecific quotas for women, specific nationalities, ethnic minorities cil include approving project strategies developed by various workor special age groups for the Board of Directors and Executive ing groups, monitoring the progress of the projects initiated and Committee. evaluating and reviewing the Group-wide guidelines and standards related to the sustainability strategy. The members of Clariant’s Board of Directors and Executive Committee have been selected solely on the basis of their ability and The Council, which is responsible for all decisions relating to ecoperformance. However, all the candidates were evaluated and senomic, environmental and social sustainability issues, is chaired by lected on the basis of the same list of criteria. This also applies to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). This is designed to ensure that sustainability issues. See also pages 96 to 113 of the 2013 Clariant all relevant strategic sustainability initiatives and activities are agreed Annual Report. Clariant employs the Swiss Code of Best Practice with Clariant's corporate governance bodies. In addition to the for Corporate Governance, which also deals with avoiding conflicts head of Clariant's Corporate Sustainability & Regulatory Affairs orof interest. This means that all the members of the Board of Direcganization (CSRA), the Council also includes the heads of business tors and the Executive Committee must organize their personal and areas and the following key functions: Catalysis & Energy, Industriprofessional relationships so as to avoid a conflict of interest with al & Consumer Specialties, Corporate Planning and Strategy, Corthe company. In the event of a conflict of interest, a procedure has porate Human Resources, Corporate Legal, Group Communications been defined for disclosing and resolving it. Clariant implements & Investor Relations, Group Logistics, Group Procurement and the relevant guidelines and recommendations in full within the byGroup Technology & Innovation. In the course of the reporting year laws of the Board of Directors. The Code of Conduct also contains Clariant started to devolve the structure of the Sustainability Council a separate chapter on how to deal with conflicts of interest. See also into the regions in order to further improve cascading and alignment. pages 96 to 113 of the 2013 Clariant Annual Report. 74 Report on sustainable management in 2013 The status quo, potential dangers and risks relating to sustainability Clariant's corporate risk management is designed to: are identified, quantified and evaluated by the relevant managers. · Coordinate and develop the entire organization's risk manageEnvironment, Safety, Health, Authorities (ESHA) employees at the ment activities and integrate risk management into the business production site, country and Group level also support this, as do process. A differentiation is made between strategy, operational the business areas' risk management staff. Systematic use of uniform, business, finance, tax, law and other corporate areas; recognized information-logging and risk-analysis tools within each · Unambiguously stake out risk management responsibilities unit is important to ensure that risk reports are both complete and within the Group; of high quality. The logging process includes all the activities of · Inform, train and motivate employees to effectively implement the area in question. Potential dangers or risks that are identified by the risk management system in a uniform manner throughout checks by external bodies, for instance authorities, insurance comthe Group; panies or consultants, are integrated in the risk management where · Identify and analyze risks reliably, carefully draw up meaningful relevant to the ESH quality-risk portfolio. reports, and avoid risks; · Ensure that all significant risks and avoidance/counteractive Management's role in shaping sustainability policy measures are indeed reported to the Executive Committee via the The Executive Committee provides the guidelines for sustainable relevant managerial levels, and serious risks are presented to operation and effective control thereof, and has the power to define the Board of Directors via the CEO for appraisal. guidelines. The relevant frameworks for this are provided by the specialist divisions. The frameworks and measures are monitored The Board of Directors has delegated to the Executive Committee by Clariant's Enterprise Risk Management, a system initiated by the responsibility for ensuring that the Enterprise Risk Management the Executive Committee to identify, evaluate and manage (relevant) (ERM) system is operational and working. The Executive Commitrisks to the company's operations. In the long run it is hoped this tee therefore has managerial responsibility for the implementation will ensure that possible risks are identified and avoided or limited. and performance of the ERM system. These responsibilities are as follows: · Group-wide operational introduction of all risk-management processes; · Introduction of a »risk culture« for all employees that makes recognizing and avoiding risks a part of their daily work; · Development of a suitable organizational framework within which to ensure unambiguous risk-related responsibilities, risk identification, measurement and reporting; · Periodic reviews of whether the desired risk profile still applies; · Provision of sufficient human and technical resources to control risks. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 75 Monitoring sustainability efforts Clariant observes and analyzes all areas that could affect the Clariant has developed guidelines specifically for guaranteeing environment and the efficient use of resources. These include: product and production safety in order to limit the impact of its · Consuming raw materials in relation to each product business activities on the environment, safety and health (ESH) as being manufactured; far as possible. The most important corporate goal within the · Handling dangerous materials; framework of our activities is to ensure human safety and protect · Energy and water consumption; the environment. The Clariant Group has therefore developed · Wastewater management; an extensive set of rules and measures as part of ESH management · Air emissions; and has introduced a Group-wide risk measurement system. Em· Waste removal; ployee training sessions are held regularly in this connection, and · Noise pollution; processes, procedures and measures are continually monitored, · Accidents, incidents and complaints from nearby residents; both in-house and by external audits. · The potential environmental aspects of activities being planned; · Residual pollution. All of Clariant’s production plants are scrutinized for potential risks and optimization opportunities. The results of these studies are inMany Clariant sites have a long and often ever-changing chemical cluded in the Group-wide risk control system, analyzed for urgency history. The way chemicals were handled and transported at some and relevance, and then implemented, if possible. ESH criteria are locations in the past led to soil and groundwater pollution. Clariant also a part of Clariant’s business relationships. Suppliers, contracis investigating these damaged sites and drawing up plans to clean tors and service providers undergo random checks for compliance them up and make them safe. These plans are discussed and implewith these criteria. The careful selection procedure that is part of mented in conjunction with the local authorities in the respective procurement management takes into account not only economic countries. The Group’s ESH organization together with renowned aspects but also purchasing and production processes as well as deexperts ensure that the experience gained to date becomes part of livery routes and systems, all of which are evaluated on the basis an efficient strategy for the future and that Clariant complies with of sustainability. Clariant works with customers to improve the eninternational standards. Contractual agreements govern any obligatire process chain. tions arising from contamination related to acquisitions or disposals. Clariant has developed the ESH management system with these criteria in mind. It is a component of process and strategy planning throughout the Clariant Group and includes an ongoing compliance audit of the corresponding rules and regulations. All employees are responsible for the efficiency of the ESH management system as it relates to their particular job, position, and qualifications. 76 Report on sustainable management in 2013 The significance of security measures has risen substantially in The ESH Risk Portfolio includes only those risks related to the enview of the increase in terrorist attacks around the world in recent vironment, security or health. All other risks are reported separateyears. Clariant is reacting to this by enhancing the measures it ly via Clariant Group risk management. The monitoring of sustaintakes to protect its property. Accordingly, none of the sites can be ability targets is outlined in Clariant’s Sustainability Policy. There accessed except through specifically designated entry points. Entry are currently 28 guidelines that form part of the audit system for is itself – as was frequently the case in the past – only possible after achieving the sustainability targets. A formalized process for checkstringent controls. Independently of these controls, there is a ing whether these guidelines are being followed and to analyze standardized concept to protect all Clariant sites that is agreed with possible weak spots was established in 2013 on the basis of an exthose responsible for operating them. This ensures that similar tensive database. effective measures are applied at all sites and that only those authorized to gain access to a site and to Clariant’s operations are According to the Bylaws of the Audit Committee and the Compliallowed in. ance Management Policy, the Audit Committee reviews major issues regarding the status of Clariant’s compliance with laws and Reporting to management regulations and the Code of Conduct. The Group Compliance ComBecause the CEO chairs the Sustainability Council, Clariant's manmittee reports annually to the Audit Committee with regard to agement receives extensive information about the potential dangers the status of the compliance organization, but also with regard to and opportunities with regard to security, health and the environthe Code of Conduct violations that occurred in the course of the ment. To this end the Council uses the ESH Risk Portfolio to record, year, how they were investigated and, if necessary, how violators analyze and present all relevant key risks in a communicative manwere disciplined and organizational measures were implemented to ner. This tool gives management an overview of the important poavoid similar violations in the future. In the year 2013, the Group tential ESH dangers and risks, and evaluates risks so that risk-­ Compliance Committee reported 32 cases of Code of Conduct cases control and reduction priorities can be set. that were investigated. This is then used to develop an overview of required and feasible corrective measures. This helps ensure an optimal allocation of ESH resources. The ESH Risk Portfolio documents and communicates changes in Clariant's risk structure. It can also be used to better develop scenarios and structures for the ongoing improvement of the emergency organization. Last but not least this tool ensures Clariant objectives are achieved and risks are minimized. The relevant reports are drawn up routinely twice a year or as necessary. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 77 Evaluation and development of corporate · The compensation components should be straightforward, transperformance parent and goal-oriented so as to guarantee maximum clarity The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors evaluates and goal orientation for all participants (shareholders, members on an annual basis the degree to which the objectives of the compaof the Board of Directors, CEO and members of the Executive ny as a whole and those of the Executive Committee have been met. Committee). It then orders the allocation of funds in accordance with Clariant’s strategic business plan for the prior year, and the allocation is then To take account of the principles of transparency in particular, the approved by the Board of Directors. This procedure ensures that bonus information provided in the Compensation Report has been expayments to employees, including executives, are also in line with panded considerably and the Articles of Association given a fundathe Group’s overall performance and objectives. mental overhaul. The members of the Board of Directors and especially the ExecuThe Compensation Committee analyzes and discusses market detive Committee have extensive expertise in economic, environmenvelopments and their possible impact on Clariant on the basis of the tal and social issues. To ensure they keep abreast of current trends aforementioned three principles. As part of this, we regularly carry and developments in the aforementioned areas, Clariant regularly out compensation benchmarking with different international comorganizes meetings in which up to 100 Clariant managers gather pensation consultancy companies. The most recent study was to exchange their experiences, at this occasion also sustainability carried out in 2013 by a globally active corporate consultancy firm issues are adressed. using a predetermined control group. In addition to assessing compensation for directors and executives, the market situation of Management pay the top 1 000 managers (managerial levels one to five) is constantly Compensation for the Board of Directors and the members of the compared to the relevant local markets. For this we use market data Executive Committee is verifiable and described in detail in the from the global framework agreements of renowned corporate Notes to the financial statements and in the Clariant Ltd Compenconsultancies, and the determined market values are continually sation Report (see 2013 Clariant Annual Report 2013 pages 114 to used as the basis for changes to compensation. 127) The company’s compensation policy for executives is based on three main principles: Our decision-making processes are very open and also involve key · The level of compensation should be competitive and in line with stakeholders. For example, we have been holding close and trusting market conditions and enable Clariant to recruit experienced excorporate governance dialogs for a number of years now involving ecutives and experts from anywhere in the world and ensure their both the Executive Committee and the CEO as well as investors, long-term commitment to the Group. consultants and important opinion-makers. As a result of this, con· The structure of total remuneration should be highly performance structive criticism is taken on board and changes made to the way and profit-oriented in order to ensure that shareholder and management interests are aligned. 78 Report on sustainable management in 2013 we operate. Clariant is a pioneer in the implementation of the OrdiThe spread of compensation between Clariant employees varies nance Against Excessive Compensation in Listed Stock Companies from one country to another. This depends heavily on the relevant (»VegüV«). Extensive measures have already been taken to pave the local managerial and employment structure, and is frequently way for a vote on the overall compensation framework for the culturally influenced. For this reason, local compensation structures Executive Committee and the members of the Board of Directors at cannot be used to address compensation issues. Globally, the ratio the 2014 shareholders' meeting. There will also be a consultative between the median and the highest basic salary is 1:9. The spread vote on last year's Compensation Report. is broader (1:17) with regard to target overall compensation because senior employees in particular obtain a higher proportion of variClariant is eager to have a global, clear and uniform compensation able pay. The ratio tends to be higher in growth regions than, say, in structure for its managers. The higher a manager is within the hierEurope; however, this underlines the fact that differences are based archy (management level, ML), the higher the proportion of on regional situations. The figures are based on the pay of all local performance-related pay. full-time employees excluding the members of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. MANAGERIAL PAY STRUCTURE in % of total compensation Methodical consideration of annual pay rounds on the basis of indiML 4 65 26 9 vidual performance, the situation in the relevant salary band, and ML 3 53 26 21 the relevant country's budget prevents lower-earning employees from ML 2 47 30 23 being disadvantaged. Globally, basic salaries were raised by 3.9 % ML 1 42 33 25 and overall compensation by 4.5 %. For competitive reasons, the relEC 29 41 30 evant country averages are not published. CEO 26 42 32 0 25 50 75 100 Financial assistance received from the government Basic salary Short-term performance-related component Sustainable production also means the foregoing of subsidies and Long-term performance-related component other individual public funding. In 2013, Clariant did not receive any direct or indirect transfer payments, with the exception of the In principle, the wider the range of responsibilities, the higher the instances listed below. Tax relief was granted in some countries, variable components. The maximum bonus that is paid out in case e.g. to promote exports, to all exporting companies based there and all of the antecedent defined and unchangeable targets are reached did not amount to a significant figure. is 100 %. However, the absolute amount of compensation is determined by the market conditions in the relevant country, and revised annually. Salary changes are negotiated in accordance with a fixed and unambiguous system and implemented through mutual agreement between the line manager and the HR department. In principle, our consistent philosophy concerning salary reviews ensures that necessary adjustments are made within the context of the local markets and individual performance. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 79 In the context of Germany’s largest pilot plant for the production of ing on the number of queries received in relation to compliance climate-friendly cellulose ethanol from agricultural waste in topics, as well as particular issues and measures. A corresponding Straubing, Bavaria, Clariant received funds from the German Minisonline hotline and helpline is currently being developed. In additry of Education and Research (BMBF) and the Bavarian governtion to the reporting of breaches of the Code of Conduct, this will ment. The funds are for related research and development programs; provide employees with the opportunity to ask questions anonyhowever, no investments or assets in kind for the pilot plant were mously via an intranet portal. These questions will then be answered funded. These research and development measures may include reby the Compliance Officer responsible for the country in question search into various raw materials or the optimization of microorwithin a reasonable period of time. The service is scheduled to be ganisms used on an industrial scale. The CIC opened in the reportset up during the course of 2014. ing year received a reduced-rate loan for investments from Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) for the construction of an Shareholder and employee recommendations especially energy efficient laboratory and office facility in Each registered share entitles the holder to one vote at the Annual Frankfurt Höchst (see page 10). General Meeting. Shareholders have the basic right to payment of dividends and also have other rights under the Swiss Code of ObliIn 2013, Clariant approved an improved Group-wide process for the gations. However, only shareholders entered in the Clariant share recording, investigating and reporting of breaches of ethical conregister may exercise their voting rights. The rights and options of duct requirements. The process will be introduced in 2014 and shall shareholders are governed by Swiss company law, the new Ordicover aspects such as the acceptance and offering of excessive gifts nance Against Excessive Compensation in Listed Stock Companies or hospitality, the unauthorized use of data and IT systems, sexual and the charter of Clariant AG. harassment, bullying and embezzlement, including in minor cases. Primary responsibility in this regard will be assumed by the HR deAll employees may submit requests or recommendations at any partments (local, regional and central), while the compliance offitime to the company, its management, or the appropriate bodies cers and ESHA area will also be involved depending on the severity through their supervisors or managers or in conjunction with the and nature of the breach. company suggestion system (which may differ from country to country). The Board of Directors has delegated the collection of Use of existing expertise recommendations to the Executive Committee. There are also In addition to the Group headquarters, the compliance officers at various country-specific regulations. both regional and local level are available to provide support in connection with issues relating to the ethically correct and legally III. COMPANY & ORGANIZATION PROFILE compliant conduct of employees. In this regard, regular checks and Clariant is a leading worldwide specialty chemicals company offerinquiries are carried out by the Group Compliance Officer depending innovative and sustainable solutions to customers in a wide variety of markets. Meanwhile, Clariant’s research and development is directed toward the key trends of our time. Among these are energy efficiency, renewable raw materials, efficient mobility and the maintenance of resources. The business activities of Clariant are divided into four areas. 80 Report on sustainable management in 2013 The Business Area Care Chemicals unites Industrial & Consumer Important products include catalysts for the production of ammoSpecialties (ICS) with the operations of New Business Developnia, methanol, hydrogen and synthetic natural gas, and for use in ments (primarily food additives) and the future-oriented Biotechvarious alternative fuels production processes including gas-to-liqnologies business. The increasing level of prosperity in developing uid (GTL) coal-to-liquid (CTL) and biomass-to-liquid (BTL). countries will support demand for personal care products and Key factors in the performance of this area include energy efficiencleaning agents. Population growth combined with the simultanecy, the requirement to reduce the consumption of raw materials, ous reduction in arable farm land necessitates a higher level of greater output in major chemical processes and the necessity for productivity, which in turn will increase the demand for highly effilarge energy storage systems for use in the production of energy cient and environmentally friendly pesticides. And finally, the (solar, wind, wave) and in electric cars. The catalysis business is prichange from oil-based chemistry to so-called »green chemistry« remarily driven by growth in the production of chemicals, in particular quires the establishment of new processes which allow chemicals in the emerging markets. Energy storage activities are aimed at marto be produced from renewable resources. kets without their own hydrocarbon resources and in which there is great interest in battery materials for electric cars and energy Care Chemicals offers the same technology platforms for a number storage devices – in particular in China. of possible applications. Sufractants, which are used in washing agents, body cleansers and for metal cleaning (prior to coating), are The Business Area Natural Resources comprises of Oil & Mining all produced using the same alkoxylation or esterification process. Services and Functional Minerals. This business area offers prodThe technology for the development of different enzymes for variucts and services for the oil, refinery and mining industry and funcous applications (detergents, food, feedstuff ) works using the same tional minerals for use in processes such as water treatment. methods as applied in the area of genetic modification. This allows Developments here are largely determined by the increasing global for customized microorganisms to be obtained which produce the consumption of oil, steel/metals, food and water. desired enzymes. Although they are used in different areas, all Clariant oilfield and The Business Area Catalysis & Energy is the only area of Clariant mining products are based on the same basic surfactant technology which specializes in inorganic chemistry. One aspect of these operathat is used to treat oil, gas and metal ores and to separate these tions is the production of catalysts for chemical and fuel processes, from unwanted parts such as water, sand and impurities. As these including those which enable the use of alternative raw materials resources are becoming increasingly exhausted, the need for techsuch as natural gas, coal and biomass. Another aspect is the developnologies allowing their efficient exploitation and use is growing. ment and sale of innovative materials for energy storage. The The products of Business Area Natural Resources are also very well development of this business area has a low level of cyclicality. suited for the cleansing of natural plant oils (palm oil, soy bean oil, etc.) or water. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 81 The Business Area Plastics & Coatings comprises the Business Active portfolio management plays a key role in our company’s path Units Additives, Pigments and Masterbatches. Plastics products are to sustainable profitability. In this context, strategic improvements designed for clients in a wide range of areas including packaging were also made in 2013. The most significant change here is the sale and mobile communications, consumer goods, medicine, textiles, of Business Units Textile Chemicals, Paper Specialties and Emultransport, and major agricultural groups. sions as was announced in last year's report. For additional detailed information as regards the business areas, products and services, Clariant develops environmentally compatible plastics for customplease consult the 2013 Clariant Annual Report on pages 50 to 75. ized use in the areas of telecommunications, automobile manufacture and real estate. Emerging markets such as China and India are set to post a significant increase in demand for plastic resin in the immediate future (e.g. polyethylene, propylene, PET). KEY FIGURES in CHF m 2013 20121 Sales 2 6 076 6 038 EBITDA before exceptionals 2 858 817 EBITDA margin before exceptionals (%) 2 14,1 13,5 EBIT before exceptionals 2 574 546 Net income 2 323 203 Basic earnings per share 2 0,98 0,68 Opertaing cash flow 301 468 Investment in property, plant and equipment 292 311 Research and Development costs 2 199 175 Total assets 8 174 9 467 Equity 2 780 2 666 Equity ratio (%) 34,0 28,2 Net financial debt 1 500 1 789 Gearing ratio (%) 54 67 Employees 18 099 21 202 1 Restated (see 1.03 in Financial Report of Annual Report 2013) 2 Continuing operations 82 Report on sustainable management in 2013 CLARIANT worldwide For an overview of the countries in which the company is active with (primary) operating facilities, see Annual Report pages 188 to 191 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 83 In 2013 as a whole, the Group generated sales of CHF 6 076 m and IV. NATURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT an operating income (EBIT) before exceptional items of CHF 574 m The protection of nature and the environment is a top priority for on the basis of continued activities. Given this overall picture, Clariant. Intensive raw materials management should ensure that Clariant can report positive results on almost all levels following the resources are handled as sparingly as possible. Efficient savings restructuring process carried out in the past years. The savings programs should also ensure a continuous improvement in water obtained through the Clariant Excellence initiative, for example, and energy efficiency and lead to ever lower levels of (pollutant) totaled CHF 400 m from its introduction to the end of 2013. Clariant emissions and waste. Permanent optimization programs such as expects to pay a distribution of CHF 0.36 per share for 2013. Clariant eWATCH provide decisive help in this regard. Renewable sources spent an amount in the low single-digit millions on donations to and bio-based chemicals are also allowing for the establishment of the needy and payments in kind to charitable causes worldwide. a widely sustainable value chain. Detailed information can be found on pages 128 to 206 of the 2013 Clariant Annual Report. Against this backdrop, Clariant is improving its processes and production procedures on an ongoing basis. As a result, not only the The headquarters of Clariant Ltd are located at Rothausstrasse 61 absolute volumes of resources, waste, waste water and air emissions in 4132 Muttenz, Switzerland. The company’s business operations are being steadily reduced, but also the relative volumes, i.e. in are conducted through Clariant Group companies. Clariant Ltd, a relation to the scale of production. This work has generated great holding company and directly or indirectly owns all Clariant Group success in recent years. companies worldwide. Clariant is a joint-stock company under Swiss law and is headquartered in Switzerland with a very diverse In 2013, Clariant introduced a binding and comprehensive control shareholder structure. Details on the ownership and shareholding directive for the Environment, Safety and Health (ESH) area. This structure of Clariant can be found on pages 158 ff. and 188 ff. of the directive should ensure that there are no breaches of internal and 2013 Clariant Annual Report, respectively. (G4-17) external regulations. As a result of these efforts and stringent voluntary commitments, Clariant was not aware of any cases in the year under review in which it has been accused of not having acted essentially in compliance with laws, regulations and voluntary codes of practice in connection with nature and environmental protection. As such, Clariant did not have to pay any substantial fines or non-monetary penalties for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2013. Two events classified under the two highest levels of the internal incident monitoring framework involved discharges in Höchst (Germany) and Tianjin (China); neither, however, had implications for people or the environment. 84 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Lower resource requirements Clariant tries, wherever possible, to use recycled materials in proIn recent years, the quantity of material used by Clariant has fallen duction. However, the percentage is low due to the nature of the in both absolute and relative terms thanks to improved efficiency. It production process, as recycled raw materials very often cannot be should be noted that in the following table the total product amount used on account of the cleanliness requirements. Their use is also can be higher than the amount of raw materials used because Clariant not possible in specialty chemicals such as those produced by Clariant also manufactures products and mixtures that contain water, and due to safety reasons. Clariant uses almost only fresh raw materials this water is accounted for and disclosed separately. The inclusion for direct precursors for the reasons mentioned above. However, of the former Süd-Chemie business activities in the presentation, there is an internal cycle that is an integral part of the production in particular the extraction and processing of bentonite, means the process for auxiliaries and for product purification and separation. raw material base has shifted significantly towards natural raw The material in such recycle streams is used several times (see exmaterials since 2012. ample of packaging reduction on page 49) in order to deliver the desired energy and resource savings. However, meaningful detecMATERIAL USE AND PRODUCTION in m t tion of the corresponding amounts is not possible with justifiable Materials used 4.48 effort as these cycles are an intergral part of the overall process. 2013* Production 4.36 Materials used 1.85 Energy and energy consumption falling 2013 Production 2.13 Clariant’s plants primarily need energy in the form of steam, elecMaterials used 4.52 tricity and natural gas. Electric power is mainly used for drives, 2012* Production 4.42 such as electric motors in mixers, pumps and other process-engineerMaterials used 1.97 ing equipment. The measurement and control technology and the 2012 Production 2.19 lighting, too, require electricity. Clariant uses natural gas for heatMaterials used 2.02 ing dryers, firing crack furnaces and generating electricity and 2011 Production 2.23 steam in its own power plants. It uses steam to heat reactors and Materials used 2.16 separators such as distillation columns. The resulting condensate 2010 Production 2.37 is, whenever possible, used for heating purposes. Materials used 1.94 2009 Production 2.13 Materials used 2.18 2008 Production 2.37 Materials used 2.32 2007 Production 2.50 * incl. Süd-Chemie CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 85 What is recorded is total energy consumption, independently of ENERGY CONSUMPTION in m kWh whether it has been internally produced or externally procured. 2013* 4 014 Thus, indirect emissions such as CO2 from electricity-generating 2013 2 712 coal-fired power plants are also accounted for. They are not dis2012* 4 158 closed separately in this report, however. Due to difficult delineation 2012 2 846 and the unclear ratio of costs to benefits, indirect emissions of 2011 2 859 greenhouse gases other than those reported are not recorded. Ran2010 3 030 dom checks have shown that the indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2009 2 812 caused by Clariant are insignificant in the overall context and 2008 3 309 are therefore not reported as material. For example, CO2 emissions 2007 3 670 caused by the travelling of Clariant employees are insignificant in 0 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 relation to overall emissions. Moreover, with more than 18 000 staff, * incl. Süd-Chemie the cost of determining the CO2 emissions generated by employees traveling to the company would not be appropriate given the level For Clariant, energy is an important production and cost factor. With of insight this would provide. Initial calculations for preliminary this in mind, Clariant has already been initiating programs and products as part of the Carbon Disclosure project also point in this projects aimed at reducing energy consumption for a number of direction. As such, an investigation of this kind will not be conducted. years. The aim is to secure permanent resource and cost savings and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. One of the secondary condiDirect energy consumption, i.e. the use of primary energy sources, tions for these programs and projects is that the necessary investtakes place at Clariant’s sites and primarily for process heat and ments are amortized within five years. These measures have borne steam generation purposes. The main primary energy source is natfruit. Between 2005 and 2013, Clariant’s production has become ural gas; coal is only used as an energy source at individual locations significantly more energy-efficient. Over the period as a whole, enin China and Indonesia. Indirect consumption at Clariant mainly results ergy consumption per metric ton of product fell by 25 % to 1 270 from the purchase of electricity and steam from external sources kilowatt hours (kWh) or 922 kWh/t incl. Süd-Chemie. When comin place of own production. Clariant procures a mix of energy from pared to the slightly lower production volume in 2005, Clariant’s various sources, with this mix varying greatly from country to global energy use has declined significantly, from about 4 660 m kWh country. Clariant endeavours, however, to increase the share of enin 2005 by almost 42 % to around 2 700 m kWh in 2013 or around ergy obtained from renewable sources on an ongoing basis. 4 000 m kWh including Süd-Chemie. 86 Report on sustainable management in 2013 For each of its locations, Clariant records all primary energy sources, Very successful energy saving measures such as natural gas, heating oil, and coal, that are used to generate The eWATCH energy saving program, in particular, has contributenergy (mostly steam) at its own plants. As part of this, it also logs ed in recent years to the steady improvement in Clariant's energy non-fossil fuels such as wood and bagasse. One location reutilizes efficiency. The origin of these savings was the Energy 2010 program waste for energy production, which is also included in the figures. launched in 2006, which had systematically recorded energy In addition, the operator of each location records all secondary consumption throughout the Group and identified potential for savenergy sourced from third parties, such as electricity from local ings. Its success led to the initiation of a more extensive successor utilities and, in the case of larger chemical plants, steam or cooling program, eWATCH: a monitoring system intended to further optienergy. This data is recorded in the relevant conventional unit, for mize operations at energy-consuming plants. eWATCH is an energy instance m3 in the case of natural gas and kWh for electricity. These management concept coordinated throughout the entire Group and units are then converted into the consolidation unit, gigajoules continuously records all energy consumption data, identifying areas (GJ), to obtain the mean energy content. This is then used as a standard that reveal potential for reducing consumption. It also enables staff measure for representing energy consumption. If other companies to continuously optimize machine utilization factors. are situated at a Clariant site and integrated into the location’s infrastructure, the volumes of energy supplied to these companies For example, machines, systems and plants should be integrated are deducted so that the figures reflect only the energy actually into production planning and processes so that they run only at or used by Clariant. The energy consumption and energy sources in this near their highest efficiency. Corresponding displays mounted in report have been determined from the data provided by more than measuring stations provide real-time visualization of these condi150 Clariant (production) sites. They therefore provide a consolidations for operating personnel. The objective of eWATCH is thereted and comprehensive picture of Clariant’s energy usage. fore to achieve greater energy savings through improved coordination of all parameters, while enabling keener assessment of the cost-benefit ratio of investments to energy savings. Lastly, intensified training aims to sharpen employees’ awareness of energy consumption and broaden knowledge of cost-saving opportunities. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 87 Listening for leaks Clariant continues ISO 50001 Pressurized air is essential for determining physical volumes in certification process cybernetics. It is used for instrumentation and control (I&C) purposClariant was certified to ISO 50001, the standard for energy es, for instance for pneumatic drive systems. This pressurized air management systems, for the first time in 2012 at one of its is known as I&C air. I&C air is considered one of the basic energies German production units. Further Clariant sites will be sucalongside electricity and steam. It is generated by the company cessively certified by 2020. In 2013, four German sites itself using compressors and often consuming a lot of electricity. (Gersthofen, Heufeld, Höchst und Lahnstein) were certified. These compressors are frequently inefficient, no longer employ the The locations all passed the external audit without major latest technology, and require a lot of maintenance. Added to this, or minor non-conformities. The auditors highlighted, in parthe networks for I&C air are often old, and the screwed and flanged ticular, the employee's high level of identification with the joints are not always completely airtight. A lot of air can escape environmental objective of saving energy in a sustainable manthrough leaks, which is why even air costs money; the more it is ner. The high priority accorded to the issue of energy alone, compressed and the greater the leak, the higher the price. which includes the additional visualization of the topic and corresponding awareness training, led to a 6 % reduction Under normal circumstances such losses are not noticed, especially in energy consumption per metric ton of manufactured prodsince they are drowned out by regular operating noise. That is uct at the Frankfurt-Höchst site, for example. Presumably why companies have only looked for leaks in serious cases up to now. nine additional Clariant sites will be certified in 2014. The losses caused by halting production make this far too expensive. What is more, ducting mostly runs through hard-to-reach places. A Clariant company in Frankfurt has now had the idea to use Airborne emissions special microphones to track down leaks, partly because it could no Greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere cannot be comlonger ignore the discrepancy between the amount of I&C air pletely avoided, despite all environmental protection efforts. They manufactured and the volume of pressurized air available for use. are simply side effects of production processes like waste or the consumption of resources and raw materials. Emissions are subject Leaks in the ducting were detected using directional microphones to limits that are laid down in the official operating licenses for the which can identify ultrasound waves up to seven meters away. plants. Clariant monitors compliance with these limits at each indiBecause of the narrow frequency range of the escaping air, the mividual site by taking its own measurements and additionally using crophones can also reliably distinguish this from other sounds. measurements taken by independent institutes in accordance with As a result, within a comparatively short time, the company was able regulatory requirements. to pinpoint more than 80 leaks from which I&C air was escaping. Once these ducts and connections were repaired and old, surplus air distribution sections were removed, I&C air consumption fell by about 35 % – as did the amount of energy used by the compressors producing it. 88 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Clariant determines the total emissions at each individual site at The volume of all greenhouse gases (expressed in CO2 equivalents), regular intervals. The volume of CO2 directly emitted by Clariant i.e. direct and indirect emissions, decreased between 2007 and 2013 between 2005 and 2013 has been declining. The amount of CO2 from 1.4 m to 0.9 m t (1.3 m t incl. Süd-Chemie). Emissions per metemitted in total has thus decreased (including as a result of unique ric ton of product fell from 540 kg/t to approximately 417 kg/t or to savings, particularly in 2010 and 2011) from around 640 000 t to 300 kg/t incl. Süd-Chemie. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions are approximately 236 000 t (516 000 t incl. Süd-Chemie). Emissions predominantly generated by external energy procurement, usually per metric ton of product fell from 236 kg/t to 111 kg/t (119 kg/t in the form of electricity and steam. Their emergence correlates incl. Süd-Chemie). very much with the amount produced and can be less influenced than direct emissions. To calculate the amounts, country-specific The direct carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions of the combustion proconversion factors are used, which are determined on the basis of cesses operated by Clariant are directly proportional to the amount the existing infrastructure in the country in question. The indirect of carbon in the employed fuels. To be able to make a comparable emissions have only been recorded since 2007. global statement, Clariant uses mean emission factors. Emissions of other greenhouse gases like methane and nitrous oxide (N2O) are Clariant reduces carbon dioxide emissions by continuously optimeasured locally and integrated into the consolidated calculation of mizing production processes to make them more environmentally greenhouse gas emissions. Aside from the CO2 inevitably produced friendly. Clariant is reducing air emissions by using innovative by combustion, N2O is particularly significant because of its extremely technologies. Often the successes are small but in total lead to sighigh global-warming potential. Optimization of catalytic exhaust nificantly lower emissions of pollutants. In collaboration with the air treatment enabled emissions from a special production process European Business School International University in Wiesbaden, to be cut by almost 40 % year-on-year, leading to a reduction in Clariant initiated a program in 2012 aimed at studying all activities greenhouse gas emissions of about 100 000 t of CO2-equivalent in in terms of their CO2 reduction potential. The entire Group is exam2013. ined by questioning relevant employees on the technology used. Based on the results, general guidelines for reducing greenhouse gas emissions will then be drawn up. This program is designed as a medium to long-term program and should induce a continuous improvement process. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 89 GHG-EMISSIONS in m t CO2-equivalents 2013* 2013 2012* 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Direct 0.68 0.40 0.81 0.54 0.60 0.62 0.64 0.65 0.71 kg/t production 156 186 184 245 269 260 300 275 283 Indirect 0.63 0.49 0.64 0.51 0.53 0.55 0.51 0.58 0.65 kg/t production 145 231 145 231 235 232 238 246 259 Total 1.31 0.89 1.45 1.05 1.13 1.17 1.15 1.23 1.36 kg/t production 300 417 329 476 504 492 538 521 542 * incl. Süd-Chemie Indirect CO2 emissions from the purchase of electricity are calculatSubstances with ozone-depleting potential are exclusively used in ed using country-specific emission factors that reflect the relevant closed systems, mostly cooling systems. Clariant records both the country’s existing energy infrastructure. Countries with a high prorespective charges and any losses. Generally speaking, the cooling portion of electricity generated from coal therefore have higher agents used have no or significantly lower ozone-depleting potenCO2 emissions per energy unit than countries that generate most of tial than the substances R11 or R22. This has allowed the total losstheir electricity from renewable energy sources like water, wind, induced resulting effect on the ozone layer since 2005 to be reor nuclear power. These factors are then taken into account when duced by around 75 % and – converted to R11 equivalents – is now converting to CO2 equivalent. Special (lower) emission factors were only slightly more than 100 kg. When cooling units are replaced used for electricity and steam purchased by major chemical plants or serviced, only coolants such as ammonia are used that have no because they use high-efficiency cogenerated power. ozone-depleting effect and where possible no greenhouse-gas potential either. Since 2005, significant emissions of other inorganic pollutants such as SO2 and NOx have been reduced overall – compared with the reporting year – by almost 50 %, and organic emissions (VOC) by almost 60 % (without Süd-Chemie). 90 Report on sustainable management in 2013 EMISSION OF GASES in t 2013* 2013 2012* 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Sulphur Dioxide SO2 770 505 899 371 421 397 353 422 538 Nitrogen Oxides NOx 877 309 847 308 292 309 331 428 424 Hydrogen Chloride HCl 39 6 41 7 8 15 16 20 30 Ammonia NH3 30 16 17 7 37 39 35 48 37 Dinitrogen Oxide N2O 517 517 845 845 1 085 803 784 586 644 Total anorganic emissions 1 716 836 1 804 693 758 760 735 919 1 028 Volatile Organic Compounds VOC 350 344 277 271 352 461 454 577 601 Methane CH4 0 0 63 63 141 81 63 166 95 Total organic emissions 350 344 340 334 493 542 517 743 696 * incl. Süd-Chemie PARTICULATE EMISSION 2013* 2013 2012* 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 in relation to production volume in g/t 73 33 76 26 24 28 30 32 32 in t 319 71 335 57 54 66 65 77 80 * incl. Süd-Chemie Particle emissions in the air fell between 2005 and 2013 by 30 % to These incidents, or PSIs (process safety incidents), are categorized 71 t (incl. Süd-Chemie 319 t), and per metric ton of manufactured according to criteria stipulated by the European Chemical Associaproduct by around 12 % to approximately 33 g/t (incl. Süd-Chemie: tion (Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique, 73 g/t). CEFIC). They are a key component of the ongoing process of improvement as regards the process safety of the production systems. The safety of people and the environment is the highest priority for In 2013, the process safety event rate at Clariant fell significantly chemical companies. One indispensable factor is an effective safety from 0.40 to 0.25. This rate denotes the number of incidents per management system that can also identify, assess and control risks 200 000 working hours. In the fourth quarter of 2013, the recording in the production process using appropriate measures, so as to reof incidents (work accidents, substance and energy emissions) duce or even entirely avoid these risks. For this reason, Clariant, in was switched to an Internet-based database. This transparent disclose cooperation with the European Process Safety Centre (EPSC), closure is a further component of the ongoing improvement has actively supported the development of a simple and representaprocess. tive measurement system, also with the aim of establishing an industry-wide standard. Here, smaller substance and energy releases will be systematically recorded and assessed in order to avoid major incidents. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 91 Water and water use At some sites, recooling water is also used as a coolant, which is One of the main auxiliaries for the chemical industry is water. Clarcontinuously circulated and after use recooled at large recooling iant mainly needs it for cooling purposes and as process water in plants. This environmentally friendly cooling method is used where production. Of the water volume used in 2013, Clariant companies technically possible, and in 2013 saved almost 200 m m3 of water, used around 70 % for cooling in production plants, and around 20 % which would otherwise have had to have been additionally procured. in production processes, with the remaining amount needed as a Total water consumption between 2005 and 2013 decreased signifiproduct component or for sanitary purposes. The water requirements, cantly, from 114 m to 64 m m3 or 71 m m3 incl. Süd-Chemie. Consumpespecially of the large production sites, are met for the most part tion per metric ton of manufactured product fell by around 27 % by river water. Before it flows into the piping system of each site, the from 42 to 30 m3 (16 m3 /t incl. Süd-Chemie). river water is cleaned according to its intended purpose using various filter systems. Remaining amounts are obtained from the respective local water grid, but not in volumes that would significantly impair the water system. Water as a scarce resource The future of society and the economy depends on the availWATER USE in m m 3 ability of fresh water resources. Some regions of the world 2013* 71 are teetering on the brink of a water crisis, which will have 2013 64 an impact on the business of companies in these regions. 2012* 79 Water shortages are becoming a growing business risk. It 2012 72 follows that the chemical industry is also exposed to these 2011 78 kinds of water risks. Clariant has already begun implementing 2010 80 a wide range of water management activities and water 2009 81 saving initiatives. However, these are now being stepped up 2008 96 in view of expected developments such as global warming 2007 103 and growth in Asia. 0 30 60 90 120 * incl. Süd-Chemie 92 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Wastewater WASTE WATER in m m3 Clariant uses water for a variety of purposes in the production of 2013* 20 chemical products, and the water is partly polluted as a result. At 2013 15 each site, therefore, production wastewater is first subject to multi2012* 21 stage chemical-physical precleaning before being routed to largely 2012 17 biological wastewater treatment plants, where it is microbiological2011 18 ly cleaned. In contrast, cooling water along with rain water can 2010 20 be fed into rivers without cleaning as it does not come into contact 2009 19 with chemicals. To prevent contamination of the intake water 2008 26 through undetected leaks in the cooling system, the cooling water 2007 27 and rainwater are constantly analyzed at the individual sites as an 0 10 20 30 additional safety measure. If contamination is discovered, discharge * incl. Süd-Chemie into the rivers can be prevented by various containment systems. Only small amounts of heavy metals are contained in the wastewater In the 2013 reporting period, the absolute total volume of wastewaof Clariant’s individual sites. The extrapolated values are partly ter from Clariant companies decreased once again in spite of largely based on concentrations that are at or below the detection limit. The constant production levels by around 10 % to 15 m m3 (incl. Südamount of introduced heavy metals is also very strongly dependent Chemie: 15 m m3). A further improvement per manufactured metric on the elimination rate of the upstream water treatment plant, the ton from 7.7 – 7.1 m3 (incl. Süd-Chemie: 4.6 m3/t) per metric ton of chemical composition of the wastewater, the effectiveness of the production output was also achieved. Between 2005 and 2013, Clariant precipitation prior to entry into the biological purification stage and reduced the chemical oxygen demand (COD) in the wastewater of the adhesiveness of the heavy metals or heavy metal complexes its companies after wastewater treatment by almost 50 % to 4 000 t. to sludge. Between 2005 and 2013, heavy-metal input decreased by Going forward, the specific COD entry is to be reduced further, 30 %. The wastewater discharged by Clariant is largely cleaned and for example by recycling and recovering »mother liquors« and by therefore does not burden the environment excessively. Thus, reducing product quantities in wastewater. This will also lower Clariant has already achieved a very high level in terms of wastewaproduction costs. ter and water treatment. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 93 Generated waste The waste amounts are recorded separately according to type and At Clariant, the prevention of waste takes priority over recovery or disposal method. The vast majority (50 – 60 %) is recycled or treatdisposal. Therefore, every effort is made during the development ed, and only unsuitable waste is disposed of in landfills. Only offiand manufacture of products to ensure that as little waste is genercially certified companies that specialize in the disposal of the waste ated as possible. Unavoidable production waste is recycled or distype concerned are commissioned to dispose of the waste. No lonposed of properly. Each type of waste is recorded and precisely ger treatable materials such as fly ash from internal waste incineraanalyzed and described. Proper disposal must be proven and docution and other manufacturing processes are disposed of in special mented in internal records, including where the waste originated, landfills. The quantity of these substances is constantly falling thanks which amounts have arisen during what period, the properties of to improvements in the manufacturing process, thereby continually the waste, whether the waste can be classified as hazardous, and reducing the amount of waste. how it can be recycled or disposed of. Clariant uses the term »waste« to refer to hazardous waste, packagWaste data at each individual site is assigned to the respective proing waste, household waste and excavated soil from construction ducers and disposers and evaluated. Disposers are chosen responsisites. As definitions vary quite widely around the world, the correbly and according to strict quality controls and checks. The checks sponding quantities are summarized under »Total waste« to preare recorded and information exchanged between Clariant’s differvent distortions. Data relating to logistics – that is, type and route – ent sites. The sum of these measures ensures continuous monitorare not recorded explicitly for waste transport. Cross-border waste ing and control of all waste flows at the sites. transport (»waste movement«) takes place only in exceptional cases and according to strict international regulations. No waste is The total amount of waste produced by Clariant has been signifishipped. The development of the various waste categories depends cantly reduced in recent years. After standing at around 303 000 t on one hand of the product portfolio, on the other hand of the in 2005, in 2013 the total had declined to around 142 000 t (incl. classification of legislators in the various countries. Süd-Chemie: 225 000 t); the decrease was continuous, also due in part because of the fall in production. The relative trend, i.e., the amount of waste in relation to production volume, was also to the downside. Thus, the amount of waste per metric ton of manufactured product fell in the aforementioned period by about 40 % from 111 kg/t to 66 kg/t (incl. Süd-Chemie: 52 kg/t). 94 Report on sustainable management in 2013 WASTE in t 2013 1 2013 2012 1 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Hazardous waste 95 813 88 252 82 843 72 297 81 282 84 911 81 443 119 971 111 313 Recycling 2 29 104 26 206 20 624 18 117 26 150 22 987 18 531 34 298 37 230 Treatment 2 51 286 48 218 40 554 39 399 39 894 42 707 49 881 66 259 61 600 Landfill 2 27 061 25 574 34 832 27 836 28 079 29 012 24 869 31 927 23 822 Non-hazardous waste 128 828 53 359 149 750 72 954 75 486 86 362 95 235 119 461 123 020 Recycling 2 25 008 20 819 82 341 27 812 22 798 24 475 31 771 37 343 33 577 Treatment 2 13 006 8 679 29 215 25 770 52 220 71 663 73 428 101 877 102 509 Landfill 2 92 770 28 030 133 422 38 368 30 127 27 064 24 451 32 129 41 872 Total waste 224 641 141 601 232 593 145 251 156 769 171 273 176 678 239 431 234 333 1 incl. Süd-Chemie 2 these figures include waste from third-party companies Transport and packaging material The security of dangerous goods transport is critically dependent In order to prevent any environmental impact through the transon the skill and care of the people involved. Regular task-related portation of products and other goods and materials as far as possiand ongoing training of Clariant employees contributes to overall ble, Clariant has laid down strict rules to ensure transport safety – security. Work-safety officers conduct regular inspections of filling with the corresponding financial outlays. In accordance with statutory plants and dispatch areas. In addition, road vehicles and tankers requirements, Clariant stores key information such as electronic carrying hazardous goods are checked at random before they leave ordering and delivery system classification and labeling data for each the plant premises. When receiving deliveries, vehicles with safety product in a database. All the parties in the transport chain are defects or with insufficiently secured loads may not drive into the then informed automatically and the transport documents are issued plant premises. When creating and implementing product-specific with the hazardous-goods information prescribed by law. The selogistics solutions, transport safety is a key factor, for example, when lection and definition of suitable packaging for hazardous materials bundling traffic flows and selecting the means of transportation. are also integrated into this IT solution. Only experienced and reliable companies are used to store, pick, schedule and transport the goods. This ensures that staff, organization and equipment all comply with legal requirements. One tool used for this is Clariant’s Forwarder Requirements Profile, which defines the requirements for reliable partnerships with forwarders. In Europe the SQAS standard, a system to review safety and quality with transportation, is mandatory. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 95 To minimize the environmental impact of the packaging in which Impact of activities on nature products are delivered to customers, reusable packaging is used Clariant is a chemical company with a longstanding history and wherever possible. Once the product has been emptied at the cusproduction sites some of which are more than a hundred years old. tomer’s premises, the packaging is then sent back for refilling. On account of the required infrastructure already being in place Other used packaging materials are returned in part and systematiprior to construction, almost all of Clariant’s newer plants and ofcally recycled. fice buildings are located in industrial parks or trading estates. Clariant does not operate any sites in biological reserves or in areas Clariant generally does not supply end customers, only processors. with a high biodiversity value. In addition, areas recultivated by Thus, many products (bulk products) can be shipped in tank trucks Clariant following bentonite extraction (Southern Bavaria) have seen and cars or silo trucks (for bentonite). Moreover, cleanable and the repopulation of animal species that are on the Red List of reusable packaging is used where possible and acceptable to the Threatened Species. customer. In a number of cases, however, customer requirements or other factors mean that packaging has to be used that is not immeClariant extracts bentonite at various sites worldwide. Before exdiately reusable. To the extent possible, packaging is recycled for matraction can start, a license has to be obtained from the authorities terial purposes or, especially in the case of hazardous materials, that prohibits undue intrusions into the natural environment. used to generate energy. Following extraction, Clariant recultivates the affected land, setting standards that at many locations exceed the legal minimum. One Clariant supports reuse and recycling by means of established and of the major bentonite extraction sites is Bavaria (Germany). The soon-to-be established recycling systems The packaging used by extensive recultivation and renaturation work that is done once exClariant meets the requirements of customers and legal requirements traction activities are complete often means that the previously and ensures product quality. Clariant participates in programs for monotonous cultural landscape is transformed into a diverse natuthe return of packaging for safe incineration or disposal. All new ral environment. Consequently, several species of animals threatpackaging products are analyzed for their degree of risk. In 2013, ened with extinction and countless forms of plant life that had preClariant made approximately 711 000 deliveries to customers. In viously not been found at these sites have sprung up there (see also 0.03 % of these deliveries, the packaging proved inadequate or article »Beneath the green fields of Bavaria« on page 22 – 25 of became wet, in 0.09 % it was damaged and in 0.01 % it leaked. this report). 96 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Clariant mostly operates plants in integrated industrial sites withSince 2010, Clariant has been a partner in a project in Colombia out sensitive adjacent areas. However, where its plants are located that facilitates the use of water in the country and improves (drinknext to rivers or unprotected forest areas, influence on the local ing) water quality. The project is supported by several Swiss fauna and flora could be noted in case of uncontrolled release of companies, with the project managers working in close coordination pollutants. For this reason, Clariant is taking all measures necessary with the Colombian authorities. As part of this project, Clariant to prevent contaminated wastewater and other pollutants from has since 2012 been driving forward the afforestation of the Cerro getting into the environment. Nonetheless, animal and plant species de Manjui mountains, which are located in a conservation area. included on the Red List of the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) and on national proThis area, which is several hundred hectares large, has for many tection lists, i.e., those in danger of extinction, are not visibly years been suffering from heavy deforestation and forest fires, as well affected by Clariant’s business activities. as pine and eucalyptus plantations that are atypical for the local fauna. Clariant is now helping to identify the most affected areas and With regard to plants located next to rivers, Clariant has laid down implement rapid reforestation. Besides careful coordination of this strict environmental regulations so that its activities only have a work, Clariant also teaches children and young people in schools in registrable impact on the surrounding flora and fauna in the case of the surrounding communities both about the efficient and sensible uncontrolled and accident-induced releases. The wastewater prouse of water and environmental science (see also article »Beneath duced by Clariant in the year under review had no measurable imthe green fields of Bavaria« on page 22 – 25 and »Planet – working pact on biodiversity. Clariant mostly operates plants in integrated for nature« page 40 – 43 of this report). industrial sites without sensitive adjacent areas. If forests, which are generally unprotected areas, are located in the immediate vicinity, Clariant ensures that the nature of the plant and the activity carried out there does not have an appreciable adverse effect on the flora and fauna there. All necessary measures are taken to ensure that no contaminated wastewater escapes inadvertently. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 97 Environmental impact of products and services REACH contributes significantly to further improving health, For product responsibility reasons and as required by the European environmental and consumer protection. Clariant through REACH Union regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization offers its customers more value and support through increased and Restriction of Chemicals), Clariant is looking for potential imcommunication and customer-oriented detailed information on the provements in the life cycle phases of its products. The properties use of its products. The regulation is also an additional catalyst of chemical substances are identified and user material and product for the development of new and better products. safety tests simulated. Registration of existing substances in the EU, that are produced or REACH entered into force on June 1, 2007. The purpose of the regimported in an amount of a ton or more per year, is done by ECHA ulation is to ensure a high level of protection for human health and step by step and depending on the amount. Thus, during registrathe environment, to improve communication when handling chemtion phase I for substances with a volume of more than 1 000t per ical products, and to maintain and improve the competitiveness year, plus substances of very high concern, were registered with a of the chemical industry in the European Union. EU-wide uniform time limit until 30 November 2010. In May 2013, Registration Phase and binding rules for the registration, evaluation, authorization II was completed on schedule and in full for products produced or and restriction of chemicals will mean that the chemical laws of the imported by Clariant in Europe with annual volumes of 100 – 1 000 t. individual states will be harmonized and simplified. In the coming two registration phases, products with a volume of 10 – 100 t per year or 1 – 10 t per year must be registered by 2018. The regulation only permits chemical substances that have previously been registered and examined for possible risks to be introduced onto the market. Clariant meets the requirements of REACH in full. Clariant has been intensively involved in the development of the REACH regulation through association activities and discussions with authorities, and has carefully prepared itself to meet the new requirements. 98 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Rise in expenditure on and investments V. HEALTH AND SAFETY in environmental protection Process and occupational safety are a top priority for Clariant. The Investment in and spending on environment, safety, and health (ESH) protection goals for the entire group as well as all safety aspects measures are recorded separately, mostly because of health and are monitored and reviewed on an ongoing basis. A comprehensive industrial safety requirements as well as external environmental rerisk assessment of operations and products is a prerequisite for all quirements such as stricter emission and wastewater limits. In business processes. Clariant is committed to preserving its employaddition, new production or product changes often require new ees' health by avoiding accidents as much as possible. Such meaconstruction or changes to existing facilities. These are recorded sures include building up a comprehensive and long-standing safety as the ESH component of overall investment. Although it goes withculture featuring programs like AvoidingAccidents@Clariant, out saying that ESH investment is made as cost-effectively as or avoiding disruptions to operations through detailed reporting of possible, it is an integral part of general investment planning and process and plant safety. Local and global emergency organizational subject neither to a cost-benefit analysis nor a specific returnstructures are in place to ensure comprehensive emergency manon-investment period. agement. In addition, a system has been established that carefully tracks complaints received from stakeholders (employees, residents ESH-related investment totaled about CHF 40 m in 2013, of which and other affected parties) and triggers their prompt resolution in 45 % was spent on process and plant safety, approximately 15 % justified cases. each on health/safety and fire protection, and about 25 % on environmental protection, focused on wastewater and air emissions. Total expenditure on operational ESH measures was similar to that of the year before, at more than CHF 190 m. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 99 Test more intelligently, act ethically quired. With this in mind, chemical companies should exchange Manufacturing, processing and using chemical substances or the results of their work wherever possible. The ECHA favors coming into contact with such substances can pose risks for this approach to avoid animal testing as far as possible. people and the environment. For this reason, since 2007 the European Union (EU) has required all chemical substances proAct ethically, research innovatively. Clariant takes this one step duced and traded within the EU to be tested to determine their further and has already begun searching for new ways of avoidimpact and the extent of this impact on people and environing tests on animals as far as possible. One example of how it ment. Far in excess of 50 000 substances are affected by this redoes this is with its inhouse developed Intelligent Testing Stratquirement. Several individual tests need to be conducted egy (ITS). Ethical reasons are the primary driver of this comper substance in order to be able to draw reliable conclusions. plex procedure. Secondly, animal testing is more time-consumThese tests analyze whether a substance causes a local reaction ing and cost-intensive in the long run. And lastly, the tests only (for example, inflammation of the skin), a toxic reaction (for exdeliver the finding that something happens, but not why it hapample, poisoning or organ damage) or a sensitizing reaction (for pens. That is why, when it comes to research and development, example, a bodily reaction only after repeated contact with this Clariant does not satisfy itself simply with better and more insubstance). Animal testing is also required in almost all cases novative products, but instead uses ITS to conduct in-depth in order to determine the active profile of a particular substance. investigations into the underlying reasons. The EU authority ECHA (European Chemicals Agency) in HelNot only does ITS allow the effects of chemical substances to be sinki coordinates the recording, assessment and continued apunderstood and documented in a way that can be reviewed and proval of all chemical substances on the basis of the presented substantiated; it also produces suggestions for possible product test results. To do this, it requests verifiable and authoritative improvements or for specific desirable product formulations. In statements from the chemical industry. It must be possible to the short term, however, as is frequently the case with high-perfully comprehend the testing methods. The effects and interacformance methods, ITS leads to higher costs, some significantly tions for a whole series of substances are already known from so, with the result that it is not economically feasible to do away recent decades, in particular if they have already been produced with traditional tests completely. Clariant will nonetheless conin large quantities and thus already the subject of multiple tests. tinue to step up its efforts in this area, since over time the usIn such cases, further tests are not necessary. In addition, existability of the findings from ITS research will generate greater ing findings for a specific substance can often be transferred to cost-effectiveness. For more information, see the Clariant Susother comparable substances, meaning that no new tests are retainability Report 2011, page 55 ff. 100 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Intensive efforts to ensure occupational safety OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE DAY'S WORK LOST Efforts to prevent accidents at work are an essential part of Clariant’s by region production activities and require continuous motivation of employMen Women Total ees by line managers. The Clariant Employment Policy launched in Worldwide 54 4 58 2012 governs such rules at a global level. Clariant launched the Europe 36 0 36 AvoidingAccidents@Clariant program, which aims to reduce the Greater China 7 1 8 number of accidents and the consequences thereof, as far back India 1 0 1 as 2007. The result of this program and related efforts is reflected in Japan 0 0 0 the significantly declining number of accidents. In line with this Latin America 5 0 5 trend, in 2013 Clariant saw a total of 58 work accidents involving 54 Middle East/Africa 1 0 1 North America 2 3 5 men and four women (down from 77 a year before) resulting in Asia/Pacific 2 0 2 lost time of more than a day. OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE DAY'S WORK LOST OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS IN RELATION TO OUTPUT LTAR* number of accidents 2013 0.26 2013 58 2012 0.33 2012 77 2011 0.28 2011 48 2010 0.45 2010 79 2009 0.68 2009 117 2008 0.78 2008 150 2007 0.92 2007 180 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 0 50 100 150 200 250 0.38 | Peer group (2011) 1.0 Averange for the European Chemical Industry (2011) * LTAR = Lost Time Accident Rate (the ratio of the number of occupational accidents where at least one day’s work was lost to every 200 000 hours of work) CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 101 DAYS OF WORK LOST DUE TO ACCIDENTS in days 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Days 1 152 2 1 431 1 115 1 188 1 931 2 182 3 128 LWDR 1 5.6 2 6.2 6.5 6.8 11.2 11.3 15.9 1 LWDR = Lost Workday Rate (the ratio of the number of days of work lost due to occupational accidents to every 200 000 hours of work) 2 Excluding sites that were divested in the course of 2013. NUMBER OF RECOGNIZED OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES AND DEATHS 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Occupational diseases 22 1 5 7 9 9 9 Fatal accidents 1 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 1 Including accidents unrelated to work with chemicals, such as road accidents 2 Occupational diseases in relation to 200 000 hours of work = 0.009 AvoidingAccidents@Clariant once again resulted in an appreciable Parallel to the developments outlined above, the number of days decline in accident-induced downtime in the year under review. lost per year through accidents at work fell from 1 431 in 2012 to 1 152 The groups's Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) fell to an all-time low, in the period under review (coupled with a simultaneous reduction from 0.33 in 2012 to 0.26 in 2013. Before AvoidingAccidents@ in FTE), bringing it well below the figure of 4,038 recorded in 2006. Clariant was introduced, this rate was above one. LTAR refers to Simultaneously, the Lost Workday Rate (LWDR, i..e., the number the number of accidents with lost work time of at least one of days of work lost due to occupational accidents at work per 200 000 working day per 200 000 operational working hours. working hours) fell from 6.2 to 5.6. No deaths for operational reasons were recorded in 2013. Two male employees suffered a newly registered occupational disease in the period under review. In 2013, Clariant recorded for the first time the number of accidents befalling temporary workers employed by the company. Within this group of employees, there were 22 accidents (all affecting men), corresponding to an LTAR of 0.75. No occupational diseases were reported. 102 Report on sustainable management in 2013 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AFFECTING TEMPORARY WORKERS WITH Continued success of AvoidingAccidents@Clariant AT LEAST ONE DAY'S WORK LOST by region The improvements in accident numbers obtained with Avoiding­ Men Women Total Accidents@Clariant and the overall extremely low accident rate Worldwide 22 0 22 demonstrate the success of the extensive and continuous activities Europe 8 0 8 carried out to prevent accidents and limit potential effects. NeverMiddle East/Africa 0 0 0 theless, in the future the efforts made to ensure that employees pay South-East Asia/Pacific 0 0 0 attention to safety at the workplace will need to be continued and Greater China 0 0 0 further reinforced so that the safety level that has been achieved is India 1 0 1 maintained permanently. Japan 0 0 0 North America 1 0 1 The basis for the accident prevention program is a comprehensive Latin America 12 0 12 analysis of the causes of accidents at Clariant. This study confirmed previously known facts: only 5 % of all accidents can be attributed OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AFFECTING TEMPORARY WORKERS to technical problems. The main cause of accidents, at 75 %, is conIN RELATION TO OUTPUT LTAR* scious and unconscious misconduct, both on the part of employees Men Women and line managers. Clariant has decided to act first in relation to Worldwide 0.75 0.00 conscious misconduct, and the provision of ongoing training and Europe 1.71 0.00 information has raised awareness within the workforce in this Middle East/Africa 0.00 0.00 respect. Southeast Asia/Pacific 0.00 0.00 Greater China 0.00 0.00 Moreover, the study revealed the little-known fact that in around India 0.42 0.00 20 % of cases, missing or inadequate organizational preventative Japan 0.00 0.00 measures or a lack of exemplary behavior by line managers were North America 1.08 0.00 the cause of the accident. This being the case, AvoidingAccidents@ Latin America 0.71 0.00 Clariant first and foremost imposes duties and obligations on * LTAR = Lost Time Accident Rate (the ratio of the number of occupational accidents where at least executives and managers. one day’s work was lost to every 200,000 hours of work) CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 103 In addition, the health of Clariant employees is regularly examined. Health takes top priority Depending on the workplace, sometimes extensive health checks The health of employees is a primary concern for Clariant. For this are carried out in order to detect signs of illness as early as possible. reason, Clariant offers discounted health programs at various sites, For some activities, special health certificates and vaccinations and attaches great importance to protecting employees from workare required, and special attention is paid to ensure that these are place accidents. In 2012, Clariant launched the Clariant Employobtained and given. These programs combined mean that Clariant ment Policy, which governs such rules at the global level. Managers already goes far beyond legal requirements, and therefore no formal make a decisive contribution to safety at the workplace. They are commitment to third parties is required. responsible for training employees in safety, and determine through their own behavior the extent to which employees identify with The prevention of occupational diseases was updated once again in such training. January 2013 in the Clariant directive »Protection against risks to health.« This directive covers all potential risks at Clariant, both in As of end-2013, the program had been implemented or initiated at its chemicals business as well as in other areas. The aim of the di79 production sites worldwide. More sites will be included in the rective is to protect the safety and health of all employees and visicoming years, depending on their size and the accident rate. The tors. For this purpose, chemical, physical, biological, ergonomic results are discussed with the responsible managers at the site and and psychosocial risks are recorded that can be associated with concrete implementation plans agreed. At the same time, the site work, working environment or emergency situations. managers undertake the implementation of the goals of Avoiding­ Accidents@Clariant. Appropriate training in the form of Awareness Workplaces carrying a risk of exposure to occupational diseases have Workshops then prepares managers for the necessary changes. been identified and appropriate protective measures defined. These Clariant employs 30 occupational safety trainers worldwide for this are primarily workplaces with a high level of noise exceeding 85 dB (A) purpose, and a program designed specifically for office staff was as well as those that handle substances classified as carcinogenic, introduced for the first time in 2014. mutagenic or toxic for reproduction (CMR substances) and dust. The directive stipulates strict regulations and minimum requireThe implementation of training of this type is also a clear signal by ments for these types of risks. In addition, regular technical controls the local management that it wishes to improve workplace safety. and measurements are carried out at the workplace and regular Not only do employees learn how to behave more safely and prevent health checks conducted for employees. accidents through targeted training courses, but – by also involving managers in the process – a strong emphasis is placed on the idea of »leading by example.« Safety is first and foremost a question of sen­ sitivity to the dangers surrounding one’s own work. For that reason, exemplary conduct and regular training is a must for managers and all employees. While it is therefore not necessary to make special agreements with employee interest groups, in some regions, for example in countries in North and South America, explicit regulations are drawn up with the relevant trade unions. 104 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Clariant operated a total of 174 production sites worldwide in the In addition, Clariant works with its suppliers and partners to imyear under review (including those operations that were closed prove the entire supply chain from a sustainability perspective as over the course of the year). Of these, 163 have a working commitwell. This includes, for instance, optimized energy and transport tee for safety issues. The remaining 11 sites have not set up an apmanagement, increased use of renewables, and active waste manpropriate committee due to their very low headcounts. This means agement. In addition, Clariant has launched a global program to that, in the final analysis, over 95 % of staff employed in production develop and realize sustainability projects with suppliers. These projare represented by a safety committee. Taking the workforce as a ects focus on risk, resource, and waste avoidance and are an integral whole (production, procurement, sales, management), more than part of Clariant’s business relationship with its suppliers. These ef85 % of staff are represented. At Clariant, safety issues are also forts and results contribute in developing Clariant’s suppliers and addressed in committees that are not primarily tasked with this topic. customers into a »global Clariant network« (see page 48). VI. SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Broad range of suppliers Sustainability criteria form an important part of Clariant’s business Clariant produces and markets specialty chemicals for its customrelationships. Clariant developed and deploys an extensive set of ers. To this end, it requires raw materials, packaging, capital criteria to select and manage its suppliers, outsourcing partners, equipment, services, and other inputs, such as energy, sourced from and service providers. This selection is not only based on economic suppliers throughout the world. Clariant procures most of its criteria, but on non-financial aspects as well, taking sustainability requirements directly from the relevant producers. Clariant is not aspects clearly into account in the selection process. Clariant’s susparticularly dependent on any of its suppliers. Of the total of almost tainability standards are incorporated into its Procurement strate10 000 raw materials procured, the top five products make up gies, policies, and general guidelines (Code of Conduct for Suppliers). around 25 % of the total volume for raw materials, about 150 products account for about 50 % of the total. Around 1 500 products account for some 90 %. Around 45 % of the raw materials procured derive from oil. About 10 % of all products procured are natural and renewable raw materials, a percentage that has been growing year by year. Clariant’s spend is about CHF 2 b per year for raw materials, and about CHF 1.2 b per year on capital equipment, energy and services. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 105 SALES BY REGION in CHF m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Europe, Middle East, Africa 2 773 2 765 3 671 3 529 3 334 4 313 4 616 North America 996 956 958 860 792 994 1 102 Latin America 931 903 1 144 1 199 1 138 1 261 1 262 Asia/Pacific 1 376 1 414 1 597 1 532 1 350 1 503 1 553 Global sales markets Sustainability check on suppliers Clariant markets and sells its products across the entire world. In Clariant assesses suppliers through an extensive program, also recent years, Clariant’s business has been more geographically based on sustainability factors such as working conditions, respect diversified with significant sales growth in emerging markets. This for human rights, complaint management, safety standards, and increase was particularly pronounced in Asia/Pacific and Latin financial creditworthiness. Clariant views the existence of certified America. While only 17 % of sales were generated in Asia/Pacific in management systems and sustainability policies and related deploy2005, this figure increased to 24 % in 2013. In particular, Clariant’s ment, as critical supplier evaluation criteria. To become a long-term sales in China have grown from 5,4 % to 7,5 % during the same Clariant partner, potential suppliers are required to share 8-year period. The share of Latin America increased from 13 % to relevant information on social and environmental issues. Relevant 16.5 % during the same period. This has shifted significant pro­ suppliers are also requested to participate in Clariant’s supplier curement volumes to those emerging markets and, consequently, assessment process. To monitor how suppliers deploy Clariant’s further and significantly increased Procurements efforts in the standards, Clariant also carries out on-site audits. To further areas of sustainability. strengthen its sustainability program towards suppliers, Clariant’s »Code of Conduct for Suppliers« provides a reference framework, and outlines expectations and requirements on business partners in terms of social and environmental protection. 106 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Code of Conduct for Suppliers · Freedom of association: Suppliers must grant the right to When procuring raw materials or other goods and services, collective bargaining (the right to strike and trade union memClariant’s Procurement organization is expected to apply the same bership) and practice fair remuneration policies (including legal, ethical and moral standards in the selection of suppliers adherence to the relevant legislation on working hours, salaries that Clariant applies in its own manufacturing operations. These and overtime pay) standards form the basis of Procurement’s Supplier Code of · Environment: Suppliers must adhere to safety standards on Conduct. Clariant expects its suppliers and partners to abide by the protection of nature and people, particularly local this Supplier Code of Conduct and make efforts to keep any residents of nearby production sites. environmental risk arising from business activities to a minimum. · Product stewardship: Suppliers are expected to control the Clariant’s Procurement will monitor the behavior of its business environmental impact of the goods and services they produce partners in respect to its Supplier Code of Conduct. In the event in their development, production, sales, utilization, and of lack of compliance, Clariant reserves the right to determine disposal processes. the implications in the business relationship with the supplier. · Resource efficiency and climate protection: Suppliers commit to continuously reducing waste and emissions into air, soil, Key aspects of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers are: and water, and to using energy-efficient and sustainable · Human rights: To safeguard the health and safety of their technologies. employees, suppliers must comply with the guidelines on · Competition and business relationships: Suppliers must workplace safety and the International Labor Organization’s guarantee law-abiding behavior (full compliance with internainternational standards on occupational health and safety. tional, national and local legislation), fair competition (adher· Anti-discrimination: Suppliers may not discriminate against ence to commercial and competition law, as well as adequate any employees on the basis of race, social background, ethnicity, monitoring and rejection of bribery and other unfair advannationality, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, political tages), avoidance of conflicts of interest, confidentiality (data opinions or disability. protection and information security) and transparent · Forced labor and child labor: Suppliers may not allow any financial reporting, as well as accurate bookkeeping and rejecforced labor or child labor and must, in particular, comply tion of money laundering. with ILO conventions 138 and 182. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 107 In the course of 2013, Clariant assessed some 400 suppliers of raw Globally diversified procurement materials. Suppliers are assessed and audited, as required. On-site Corporate policy concerning local suppliers. Clariant prefers to audits are largely planned based on the results of the supplier procure goods and services within the region in which its respective assessments. Both Clariant employees and external auditors particoperating facilities are located, as far as qualitatively compatible, ipate in these site visits. technically feasible, and economically justifiable. This way, Clariant’s activities support the economic development of the regions conIn order to further strengthen and expand its reach Clariant has cerned. This is particularly relevant and encouraged especially in decided to outsource part of its supplier sustainability audits (includemerging markets. ing environmental and social assessments) to third-party service providers. PROCUREMENT VOLUME BY REGION in CHF m Within Clariant’s supplier qualification process, ISO and other cer2012 2013 Asia/Pacific 378 464 tifications, and commitment and participation to initiatives such of which procured locally 338 421 as »Global Compact« play a major role. In fact, they represent a clear number of suppliers 1 707 1 944 indication of Clariant’s suppliers in terms of active and substantial Europe 1 219 1 327 engagement and adherence to sustainability principles, programs, of which procured locally 1 132 1 233 and deployment. number of suppliers 1 587 1 741 Latin America 371 378 In 2013 Clariant’s extensive audit system focused on suppliers in of which procured locally 240 243 the key growth regions of China and India. Clariant’s supplier number of suppliers 839 880 audits cover a wide range of topics including financial and ecological Middle East and Africa 31 63 factors, as well as the working conditions of supplier’s employees of which procured locally 8 25 and safe transportation of products. number of suppliers 34 338 North America 141 270 Clariant views its suppliers as partners. In order to strengthen this of which procured locally 133 238 vision and approach, Clariant hosts a variety of events such as the number of suppliers 317 516 »Supplier Days«. Through them, Clariant presents its sustainability Total 2 140 2 502 program and objectives, and engages with its suppliers in the of which procured locally 1 852 2 159 deployment and realization of activities. Highly successful events number of suppliers 4 486 5 422 were held in China and India, in particular. In these countries, not only did participation exceed 80 %, but there is also a strong spontaneous demand coming from suppliers to attend these events. 108 Report on sustainable management in 2013 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses/have unees, customers, the general public and the environment can rely on dergone human rights screening (UNGC). All investments with a the safety of its products throughout the entire product lifecycle. As total volume of more than CHF 1 m must be approved by the Investpart of its active product portfolio management, Clariant is also atment Subcommittee of the Executive Committee (EC). The Subtempting to reduce the toxicity of its products constantly by replaccommittee will make its decision based on financial, strategic and ing existing hazardous chemicals with those that are safer. sustainability criteria, the last of which also include human rights aspects. As part of the product safety and product responsibility programs, Clariant is constantly looking for substitutes for and alternatives Clariant rejects any form of child labor with the aforesaid workplace to hazardous substances. This not only includes participating in acdirective and strictly complies with local regulations concerning tivities within the EU registration program REACH, but also in legal minimum age requirements for work permits. ILO convention Clariant internal initiatives such as EcoTain®, which aims to define numbers 138 and 182 are expressly acknowledged as the minimum product design while taking into consideration the entire product standard here. Clariant is not aware of cases of child labor in the lifecycle. At the same time, innovation policy is aiming at future socompany or at its suppliers. Similarly, Clariant rejects any form of cietal needs. In terms of animal protection, there are already strict forced labor or slavery. Clariant is also not aware of any cases of external and internal guidelines in place to govern the unavoidable forced labor or slavery in the company. issue of animal testing. Moreover, Clariant is continually working on developing innovative alternatives to animal testing as part of its VII. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Intelligent Testing Strategy. Clariant attaches particular importance to protecting the environment and nature. The company's Product Stewardship OrganizaClariant constantly monitors and carries out regular reviews on all tion ensures that the product portfolio corresponds to the internabusiness aspects and processes, including issues related to Respontional environment and safety standards as specified, for example, sible Care®, in order to ensure that they continue to conform to the by REACH or the Global Product Strategy. Thus, Clariant has not company's commitment to sustainability. Quality and performance yet had to close or avoid any business areas due to potential envimonitoring is an integral part of the company's business processes ronmental risks. Clariant would not hesitate to separate itself from and strategic planning. products if the company found that they proved a risk to the environment. Clariant is convinced that a company cannot enjoy economic success on a sustained basis without knowing the exact needs of its customer base. Innovation and customer focus are extremely important in this respect. Clariant is constantly developing new and improved products and services to add value for its customers and the environment. At the same time, Clariant makes sure that employCLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 109 Clariant is making ongoing efforts to improve corporate performance with legal requirements. This has been met with positive reactions in terms of safety, health and environmental protection, as well from customer groups and it is also in compliance with the recomas product quality with respect to sustainability. In addition to optimendations of national and European associations. mizing product features relevant to safety and the environment, emphasis is placed on communication with customers and other In the year under review, there have also been no incidents – neistakeholders. In its pursuit of the highest possible level of transparther offenses nor criminal investigations – related to product-relatency, Clariant publishes its position papers relating to sustainability ed health and safety issues or on account of breaches against the on its internet page (www.sustainability.clariant.com). The values applicable law and voluntary codes of practice in relation to inforPerformance, People, Planet, are paramount for Clariant. Internally mation about the labeling of products and services. developed assessment systems such as EcoTain promote modern innovations to meet actual and future societal needs. Clariant is also dealing with goods that are subject to different trade control regimes such as chemical weapons conventions or the Clariant maintains contact with customers at all times, thus ensurdual-use regulation. ing that they receive support in the application and use of Clariant products. Laboratories are on hand to solve any specific problems. All of the respective national and international trade control reThe service offering also features comprehensive product informagimes as well as embargo regulations are monitored by a global tion, in particular in respect to optimum and safe application, trade control network within the Clariant organization. Based on health risks, waste disposal and handling packaging. Safety data sheets the IT system together with organizational control checks, all containing the relevant substance data, information on the safe deliveries are controlled in order to ensure trade compliance. Thus, handling and storage of products, and measures in the event of incifor example, controlled goods can only be delivered if the necessary dents such as product spillages/release and fire are provided by permits are obtained from the relevant authorities as well as Clariant to all parties involved in the further handling of the subend-user statements from the customer. Clariant makes sure that stances. all trade control requirements are fulfilled. Clariant provides customers with a special internet-based REACH There were no incidents – neither offenses nor criminal investigaDialog System (RDS) enabling them to obtain information about tions – on account of breaches against applicable law and voluntary the supply chain. Here, every Clariant customer is able to securely codes of practice in relation to information about the labeling of receive REACH-relevant information on the specific products products and services. Similarly, Clariant is not aware of any incithat they have purchased. The purpose of the system is also to satisdents in which there have been infringements of laws/regulations fy the stringent REACH communication requirements concerning in terms of the procurement, use or supply of products and services. the use of products. Using this system, the users of Clariant products There have also been no complaints regarding breaches of data in the customer chain can check and, if necessary, update or change protection laws in the year under review, nor has there been any the REACH-relevant information provided by Clariant promptly loss or theft of customer data. and reliably. Clariant is thus providing customers with a system in order to ensure that all of the relevant information is communicated simply and completely throughout the customer chain. This system is constantly being improved, simplified and adjusted in line 110 Report on sustainable management in 2013 VIII. PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT Portfolio optimization affects the workforce A responsible approach to dealing with customers, fellow human At the end of 2013, Clariant employed 18 099 full-time employees. beings, and the environment strengthens partnerships with key groups which determine Clariant’s success – both in the current market CHANGES IN THE NUMBER OF FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES as of 31. December environment and in the future. The most important element in this process, however, are the employees, as their performance alone 2013 18 099 determines the economic strength and competitiveness of Clariant. 2012 21 202 2011 22 149 In recent years, Clariant has therefore drawn up numerous employee 2010 16 176 advancement and development programs, with a wide range of ser2009 17 356 vices. 0 4 000 8 000 12 000 16 000 20 000 24 000 Both attracting qualified employees and ongoing employee training and development are therefore of great importance to Clariant. THE 2013 WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP Special programs and facilities have been established to this end, such Information based on full-time employees (FTE) as the Clariant Academy. Clariant provides its employees with the Total: 18 099 skills and resources they need to work in an even more efficient and innovative way. The company has already set exemplary standards in this area with numerous (training) programs. Clariant also aims Below 30 years 2 215 12.2 % to become more attractive as an employer and keep employees within the company for as long as possible through measures includAge unknown 128 0.7 % ing a modern family policy and special demography management. Over 50 years 4 274 23.7 % 30 to 50 years 11 483 63.4 % Half of the workforce's employment contracts are based on agreements reached with staff representatives. Managerial positions are generally not included in such agreements. Clariant is generally committed to paying its employees fair and appropriate compensation in the form of wages and salaries, social components and other perks. This compensation should meet minimum statutory standards and in principle exceed them in each country in which Clariant is active. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 111 In 2013, 4 700 employees left Clariant, 2 700 of them through the TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION & GENDER sale of parts of the company. The remainder, about 11 % of the in % in % workforce, either left voluntarily, were made redundant on organiRegion FTE region total zational or operational grounds (approx. 400), or left due to retireAsia 4 234 100 23 ment, the termination of fixed-term contracts, or other reasons (apMale 3 408 80 18 prox. 1 000 in all). Over the same period 1 496 employees newly Female 826 19 4 joined the company. Of the approximately 2 000 people leaving the Europe 8 537 100 47 workforce, 29 % are younger than 30, 42 % are between 30 and Male 6 618 77 36 50 years old and 29 % are older than 50. Of the approximately 1 500 Female 1 919 22 10 people entering the workforce 43 % are younger than 30, 48 % Latin America 2 589 100 14.3 are between 30 and 50 years old and 6 % are older than 50 years. Male 2 102 81 11 Female 487 18 2 THE STRUCTURE OF THE CLARIANT WORKFORCE IN 2013 Middle East & Africa 1 029 100 5 Information based on full-time equivalents (FTE) total in % Male 831 80 4 Employees 18 099 100,0 Female 198 19 1 Male 14 252 78,7 North America 1 708 100 9 Female 3 848 21,3 Male 1 292 75 7 Employment relationship Female 416 24 2 Full-time employees 17 786 98,3 Grand Total 18 099 100 100 Male 14 032 77,5 Female 3 754 20,7 Full-time employees 17 421 97,9 Male 13 975 78,6 Female 3 446 19,3 Part-time employees 365 2,1 Male 57 0,3 Female 308 1,8 Temporary employees 314 1,7 Male 220 1,2 Female 94 0,5 Type of employment Employees 10 751 59,4 Male 7 459 41,2 Female 3 292 18,2 Wage-earners 7 349 40,6 Male 6 793 37,5 Female 556 3,1 112 Report on sustainable management in 2013 No intentional differentiation is made in the company benefits proEmployees are promptly informed of all significant operational vided by Clariant according to the type of employment contract, changes by the company. In addition to the regular and ad hoc but this does not exclude differences depending on the individual information provided to all employees via the intranet as well as incase and local circumstances. The decisive component in this is formation letters from the CEO and management, the company the common market practice checked within the framework of concomplies with all local statutory and operational requirements in tinuous benchmarking. However, a systematic survey has yet to regard to the provision of information to employee representatives be undertaken. and employees. Information is also disseminated about the reporting lines for the relevant hierarchical levels. Moreover, voluntary Of Clariant's 18 099 employees at the end of 2013, a total of 439 took corporate information sessions are regularly held. advantage of the opportunity to take parental leave in the year under review. Of these, 180 were female and 259 male. At the end of Initial and continuing vocational training their parental leave, 63 % of the women and 88 % of the men Clariant considers it important that its employees have the opporreturned to their place of work. tunity to realize their potential and develop a successful career. In addition, Clariant believes that motivating and training its emWith a view to providing parents of new-born babies with the opployees will contribute significantly to the company’s success. portunity to combine work and private life without sacrificing For this reason, based on the principle of equal treatment and equal career opportunities within the company, Clariant introduced a Famrights, Clariant offers its employees internally and externally ily Support Policy in 2012. The relevant guidelines – some of which conducted specialist and interdisciplinary training and qualification go beyond the legal requirements – apply worldwide to the entire measures. company. Apart from that they guarantee a comparable position to all mothers upon their return to work, up to one year following the Family policy birth or adoption of a child. In 2012, Clariant initiated a program to promote more familyfriendly job opportunities. As part of this program, all mothers are guaranteed a comparable position upon their return to work up to one year following the birth or adoption of a child. For the two years following the birth or adoption, Clariant grants mothers ten days of paid leave for family purposes, in addition to their standard annual leave. Fathers are also entitled to the same benefit after the birth of their child. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 113 EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE This is defined globally by the Clariant Employment Policy. Each Nationality FTE in % individual employee is supported in terms of their ability and Total 18 099 100.0 desires, their efforts as regards the quality of their work and comGerman 4 789 26.5 pliance with environmental, safety and health protection laws Chinese 1 351 7.5 and regulations, both individually and within teams. Global consoliBrazilian 1 175 6.5 dation of all educational and training programs according to scope French 1 023 5.6 and employee group or gender has not taken place as yet. Therefore, Indian 969 5.4 no reliable overall indication of the average scope of the training Indonesian 880 4.9 can be given on the basis of the currently available information. Italian 776 4.3 Clariant is considering the feasibility of centrally controlling trainMexican 558 3.1 ing measures, including global recording of the relevant data. Turkish 391 2.2 Spanish 386 2.1 Clariant considers the continuous training of employees within the South African 385 2.1 framework of the internal talent management process important, Columbian 293 1.6 partly because it produces high-performing young professionals. Japanese 285 1.6 The Clariant Employment Policy provides the basis for this. Clariant Swiss 256 1.4 is setting out to establish and sustain a high-performance culture Ukrainian 254 1.4 which reflects our vision of becoming the world’s leading specialty Thai 214 1.2 chemicals company. In order to drive the company forward into Venezuelan 184 1.0 the future, we rely on well-trained and highly motivated employees. Argentine 173 1.0 British 158 0.9 The Clariant Academy began fulfilling this task back in 2006. In the Malaysian 157 0.9 spring of 2013 the Academy was adapted to the broader set of duPolish 147 0.8 ties, restructured, and the range of training courses expanded conPakistani 113 0.6 siderably. The Clariant Academy is designed firstly to teach manChilean 96 0.5 agement skills and techniques, secondly to develop and improve Swedish 94 0.5 managerial and organizational skills, thirdly to optimize core busiTaiwanese 93 0.5 ness processes (Functional Excellence), and fourthly to train Singaporean 91 0.5 employees in managing change. This new range of courses suppleOthers* 2 811 15.5 ments the other initial and continuing training programs already * including all employees in the United States and Canada, whose nationality is not recorded available at Clariant. 114 Report on sustainable management in 2013 In 2013, more than 10 000 employees took part in Clariant training mainly on language courses, communication and presentation courses, attending a total of about 117 000 hours of training. Clariant skills, performance management and business administration. EmAcademy programs accounted for almost a third of these, the focus ployees also attended courses in information technology (IT), being on leadership training courses, in which about 800 employees environment/safety/health (ESH), law and technology. However, attended some 26 000 sessions. More than 80 000 hours of training because data about these is not gathered centrally we do not have were provided by local advanced education programs focusing figures for these courses yet. Addressing demographic change Health Management covers a whole range of services, from regIn late 2010, Clariant launched the Demography Management ular health check-ups, sports and »healthy workspaces« all the project as a pilot project at its German sites so as to gain greater way to active breaks and massage. Management of Family & Caunderstanding of demographic change. The aim of the project reer covers several points such as Clariant’s Family Support is to keep staff with the company as long as possible and to secure Directive, part-time positions, emergency childcare provision, a notable increase in employer appeal. By the end of 2013, holiday programs for employees' children and comprehensive about 5 000 employees had been involved in the pilot project. advice and support services for families (from third-party service providers). Demography Management consists of the following analytical and action fields: »Health management,« »family & career,« In the year in review Clariant developed long-term accounts for »workplace of the future« and »knowledge transfer between its employees in Germany. These are working-time accounts different generations« of staff at Clariant. The basis of the projto which employees can add income or working time to finance ect is the exact analysis of the employee structure in terms of paid vacation (even for extended periods). This gives employees education, functions and activities, age, health and, in particular, greater flexibility in planning their lives, for instance enabling the needs of employees. Based on the findings, specific prothem to take paid vacation before retirement. In 2013, Clariant grams and initiatives are being developed with the help of which also expanded its employee childcare offering following the notable improvements in the aforementioned fields can be extremely successful launch of the program at our Rhine-Main achieved. location. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 115 Clariant promotes further training and provides young people with In 2012, Clariant began the phased introduction of a new compresound apprenticeships. This was precisely what Clariant had in hensive performance management process for its employees. By the mind when it established the Clariant Academy as an additional edend of 2013, about 1 060 employees at the highest five managerial ucational organization that brought under a single roof all the levels had been included in this (about 6 % of the total workforce) training programs that address Clariant's values, mission and straas well as 4 000 employees at lower levels of the hierarchy, accounttegic goals. ing for about 22 % of staff. This process will be expanded in 2014, when a further 920 management-level and about 6 500 lower-level An essential tool for customizing the training measures offered is employees will be involved. This will then account for almost 70 % the internal talent management process at the local, regional and of all employees, of whom 69 % will be male and 31 % female. The global levels. During Talent Reviews, strengths and development expansion of the process to include the remaining target groups is areas are systematically identified and individual development scheduled for 2015. The Performance Management System focuses plans drawn up. One of the aims of the 360-degree feedback process on the following levels: defining and evaluating individual objecand the annual performance dialog is to reflect the ongoing develtives throughout the year, talent management and development plans, opment potential of employees and agree on appropriate developas well as the implementation of corporate values and conduct. ment goals and activities. Clariant considers the continuous training of employees within the framework of the internal talent Diversity and equal opportunities management process important as it ensures well-functioning In 2013, the Board of Directors of Clariant consisted of three Swiss succession planning within the company. citizens, three German citizens, one British, one Austrian and one US/Swiss citizen. The members of the committees were members Demographic change, especially in industrialized countries, means of the Board of Directors. The Executive Committee consisted of that companies must think early about attracting qualified staff. four German citizens. The members of the Board of Directors were This happens, on the one hand, by increasing the appeal as an emall at least 44 years old (average age: 49) and the members of the ployer and, on the other hand, by encouraging, developing and Executive Committee were all at least 48 years old (average age: 53). supporting staff in order to keep them with the company for as long Clariant has not introduced any specific quotas for women, specific as possible. nationalities, ethnic minorities or special age groups for the Board of Directors and Executive Committee. All the candidates are evaluated and selected on the basis of the same list of criteria. All the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee are male. 116 Report on sustainable management in 2013 EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY AND GENDER Clariant’s global employment policy strives for a diverse workforce and aims to find the candidates best suited for an open position. Employee Category Gender FTE Percent Clariant is a non-discriminatory employer, hiring and promoting Manager (ML 1–5) Female 91 <1 employees based solely on the qualifications and skills required Male 763 4 for the work. The recruitment of employees is based only on their Employee (non ML) Female 3 200 17 suitability for the open position and their individual potential for Male 6 694 37 a successful future at Clariant – in line with the corporate strategy Worker Female 555 3 and objectives. In 2013, half of the individuals hired at the top four Male 6 793 37 management levels were citizens of the country in which the hiring Grand Total 18 099 100 Group division was located. EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Wages and minimum pay Total: FTE 18 099 / 100 % Clariant pays wages and salaries that are determined by local relevant competitive markets rather than by legally defined minimum wages. For this reason any minimum wage ratios are not reflected. Worker 7 348 40 % No sex discrimination on pay Globally, the average basic salary of female employees is 93 % of that of the average male employee. That's a slight improvement Manager (ML 1–5) 855 4% over last year's figure of 92 % and also reflects a reaction of the sysEmployee (non ML) 9 895 54 % temic approach to regulation, this means that performance and position in range of salary are important values in determining salaEMPLOYEE GENDER ry development. However, the remaining difference cannot be Total: FTE 18 099 / 100 % explained as simply systematic misallocation, rather it is a reflection of the relatively low number of women in managerial positions, which is why the average is lower. Male 14 251 78 % Female 3 847 21 % CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 117 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Clariant is aware that a varied workforce is of great value to the Pension and other employee benefit plans are monitored globally by company. Consequently, Clariant does not tolerate any discrimination Clariant for relevance, compliance, costs and suitability as a valuable based on the race, ethnicity, sex, religion, world view, a disability, employee benefit. Clariant is aware of the significance of these age or sexual identity of employees – either within the company or pension and other benefit plans as a way of retaining staff. The staff by business partners. None of Clariant’s national companies has retention value of pension and benefit plans is understood and reported any breaches of this principle to date. In order to document consequently benefits are periodically benchmarked to be consistent its societal commitment Clariant has also adopted a suitable workwith current typical practice in each country. Amending and revisplace directive (»Clariant Employment Policy«) on these issues. ing pension plans is difficult and the impact on employees as well as any consultation requirements are always considered before any Clariant currently has no Group-wide notification and reporting changes are implemented. The accounting and financial consequences system in the event of legal action or complaints in respect of human of these pension and benefits plans can be found on page 125 of the right breaches. However, in 2011 plans were started for one such 2013 Clariant Annual Report. global system. So far only the locations in South Africa, Malaysia and Australia have introduced a formalized data recording system for Complaints about working practices legal action on account of human rights breaches and only in the Clariant supports freedom of association. As part of this, it respects event of complaints from employees. In 2013, Clariant received the right of entitled employees to join unions and to be represented no internal complaints of breaches of human-rights issues. by representatives of these unions internally and externally in accordance with the applicable national or local laws and practices. In the reporting period Clariant processed 59 complaints from emClariant knows of no cases in which freedom of association or ployees regarding breaches of occupational safety or labor law, 56 the right to collective bargaining have been seriously jeopardized or of which were received in 2013. Of these 59 complaints, 34 were even breached. processed conclusively. A further 24 complaints processed in 2013 were from earlier reporting periods. Clariant has no global comClariant rejects any form of child labor and strictly complies with plaints body. Rather it espouses a culture of trust and feedback. Comlocal regulations concerning legal minimum age requirements for plaints are received via line managers or works councils within work permits. ILO convention numbers 138 and 182 are expressly the relevant statutory framework. Beyond this, if the aforementioned acknowledged as the minimum standard here. Clariant is not aware procedure does not achieve the desired outcome, complaints can of cases of child labor in the company or with its suppliers. Similaralso be made through Compliance (i.e. reported to the regional HR ly, Clariant rejects any form of forced labor or slavery. Nor is department or compliance officer or Group Compliance Officer). Clariant aware of any cases of forced labor or slavery in the company The relevant mechanisms as well as the reporting itself are defined or any cases in which the rights of indigenous people were violated. internally for HR staff. 118 Reporting limits AND REPORTING STRUCTURE STRUCTURE AND LIMITS OF THIS REPORT The figures presented in this report cover the entire Clariant Group Clariant has based both the structure of this Sustainability Report as well as the acquired former Süd-Chemie. However, it has someand the representation of individual sustainability issues and topics times been necessary to show the figures for the former Süd-Cheon the framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The mie separately. This is the case if, for example, differing product »G4 comprehensive« reporting profile (previously »G3«) is used, and categories made it more difficult to have a common time series with the points therein have been taken into account. The materiality regard to environmental issues. Moreover, the figures for 2012 may of the relevant aspects is shown on page 8. Topics within the G4 prodiffer slightly from those given for the same period in last year’s refile that have little or no relevance to Clariant are mentioned but port. This is because subsequent calculations and corrections have not discussed in detail. (G4-18) changed the relevant values somewhat. This Clariant Sustainability Report encompasses all Group compaThe reporting period of this Sustainability Report comprises January nies and plants (provided Clariant owns more than half of the 1 through December 31, 2013 and is therefore identical to the shares) as well as all relevant business and specialist areas. An orgafinancial year of Clariant. Clariant’s Sustainability Report is currently nizational overview is provided on page 80 of this Sustainability published on an annual basis in the quarter following the reporting Report. A more extensive version thereof can be found on pages 50 year. to 75 of the 2013 Clariant Annual Report. (G4-17) The last sustainability information published on Clariant in printed An overview of the most important Clariant Ltd Group companies form was made available in March 2013 as part of the 2012 Sustaincan be found on pages 188 to 191 of the 2013 Clariant Annual Reability Report. A continuously updated version can be found in the port. In exceptional cases, deviating reporting is expressly identified relevant area of the Clariant website. and explained in the respective location. There are no other restrictions. The representation of the sustainability areas and activities in Questions about this report should be addressed to: this report cover all major issues for Clariant. This report was preCorporate Communications, Daniel Kaufmann, Tel. + 41 61 469 54 79 pared with the utmost care following an in-depth evaluation. This Investor Relations, Siegfried Schwirzer, Tel. + 41 61 469 67 49 is so that Clariant can present a balanced picture of its sustainability Inquiries by e-mail to sustainability@clariant.com efforts. (G4-20, G4-21) Website www.clariant.com In the course of 2013, Clariant divested further business areas in Orders may be placed on the Clariant website: www.clariant.com or order to balance its current corporate, activity and product portfolio. sent in writing to the following address: Clariant International AG, Most of its activities will be continued. In contrast to the Annual Investor Relations, Rothausstrasse 61, 4132 Muttenz, Switzerland Report, these changes do not affect the 2013 Sustainability Report. Divested units are included until the date on which they were no This Report has not been audited externally. Instead, GRI conducted longer part of Clariant. The information about the status quo is based a materiality check. not on a period, but on a specific day. Logical exceptions are marked accordingly. In accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standard 5 (IFRS 5), Group segments that are held for sale must be reported in the income statement and balance sheet of the Annual Report as discontinued operations, held for sale respectively. There were no other structural changes from the previous year’s Sustainability Report. (G4-22, G4-23) CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 119 GRI INDEX DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE 1. Strategy and Analysis 5. Report Profile G4-1 Foreword from the CEO 1 2 G4-28 Reporting period 1 119 G4-2 Key sustainability risks, opportunities and G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 1 119 impacts 1 8 G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 119 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding 2. Organizational Profile the report 1 119 G4-3 Name of the organization 1 84 G4-32 Reporting option chosen for the report 1 119 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 1 80 G4-33 External assurance 1 119 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 1 84 G4-6 Number of countries where the 6. Governance organization operates 1 83 G4-34 Governance structure 1 73 – 75 G4-7 Nature of ownership 1 84 G4-35  Process for delegating authority for economic, G4-8 Markets served 1 80, 106 environmental and social topics 1 74, 75 G4-9 Scale of the organization 1 82 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental G4-10 Total workforce 1 111 and social topics 1 75 G4-11 Bargaining agreements 1 111 G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and governance bodies 1 80 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 1 105 G4-38 Composition of highest governance body 1 74 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 1 82 G4-39 Function of highest governance body 1 73 G4-14 Implementation of precautionary principle 1 66 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for highest governance body 1 74 G4-15 Support for external initiatives 1 66 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to G4-16 Memberships in associations/interest groups 1 68 ensure avoidance of conflict of interests 1 74 G4-42  Highest governance body’s role in develop3. Identified Material Aspects and ment of organization’s strategies related to Boundaries economic, environmental and social impacts 1 75 G4-17 Entities included in the report 1 84, 119 G4-43 Highest governance body’s collective G4-18 Definition of report content and boundaries 1 8, 9, 119 knowledge of economic environmental and social topics 1 78 G4-19 Material aspects 1 8 f. G4-44 Highest governance body’s performance G4-20 Material aspects and report boundaries with respect to economic, environmental within the organization 1 119 and social topics. 1 78 G4-21 Material aspects and report boundaries G4-45 H  ighest governance body’s role in identification outside the organization 1 119 and management of economic, environmental, G4-22 Changes to the company compared to and social risks and opportunities. 1 75 previous year 1 119 G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing G4-23 Significant changes in scope and aspect organization’s risk management for economic, boundaries from previous reporting year 1 119 environmental and social topics. 1 76, 77 G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, 4. Stakeholder Engagement risks and opportunities. 1 77 G4-24 Stakeholders engaged by the organization 1 13 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholder groups 1 14 G4-26 Engagement of stakeholder groups 1 14 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement 1 14 1 no external assurance of report content »Materiality Matters« Check by GRI UN Global Compact 120 Annex DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE G4-48 Review and approval of organization’s 10. Environmental sustainability report 1 76 G4-EN1 Materials used 1 85 G4-49 Communication of critical concerns to the G4-EN2 Materials recycled 1 85 highest governance body 1 77 G4-EN3 Energy consumption inside the organization 1 86 G4-50 Critical concerns communicated to highest governance body 1 77 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 1 86 G4-51 Remuneration policies for highest governance body 1 78 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 1 86 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 1 78 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 1 87 G4-53 Consideration of stakeholder’s view G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 49, regarding remuneration 1 78 products and services 1 85 – 87 G4-54 Ratios of annual total compensation 1 79 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 1 92 G4-55 Ratios of percentage increase in G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by compensation 1 78 withdrawal of water 1 92 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 1 92 7. Ethics and Integrity G4-EN11 Properties in protected areas or abutting G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standard protected areas 1 96 and norms 1 67 G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity in G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking protected areas 1 96 advice on ethical and lawful behavior 1 80 G4-EN13 Habitats protected and restored 1 97 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4-EN14 Number of red list species impacted 1 97 unlawful behavior. 1 80 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 1 89 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (energy) 1 89 8. Specific Standard Disclosures G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 1 86 G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 5, 9, 15, G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 1 89 84, 92, G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 1 89 1 99, 105 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1 90 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 1 91 9. Economic G4-EN22 Total water discharge 1 93 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1 84 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste 1 94 G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 1 91 change 1 68 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste 1 94 G4-EC3 Benefit plan obligations 1 118 G4-EN26 Waste water and biodiversity 1 93, 97 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from G4-EN27 Environmental impact mitigation of government 1 79 products and services 1 98 G4-EC5 Ratios of entry level wages 1 117 G4-EN28 Packaging material 1 85, 96 G4-EC6 Senior management hired from local G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions community 1 117 for non-compliance with environmental G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services laws and regulations 1 84 supported 1 13, 70 G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 1 70 products 1 95 G4-EC9 Spending on local suppliers 1 108 G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 1 99 G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 1 106 ff. G4-EN33 Environmental impacts in the supply chain 1 106 ff. G4-EN34 Grievances about environmental impacts 1 84 CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 121 DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE DIMENSION UNGC/GRI PAGE 10.  Social Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the G4-LA1 New employees hired and turnover rate 1 112 supply chain 1 107 G4-LA2 Employee benefits 1 113 G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights 1 70, 118 G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave 1 113 G4-LA4 Notice periods regarding significant changes 1 113 Society G4-LA5 Employees represented in health and safety G4-SO1 Programs and practices regarding the committees 1 105 impacts of operations on communities 1 13, 70 G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost G4-SO2 Impact of operations on local communities 1 13, 70 days, and work-related fatalities 1 101 – 105 G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to G4-LA7 Risk control and programs regarding serious corruption and risks identified 1 70 diseases 1 104 G4-SO4 Employee training in anti-corruption G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal policies and procedures 1 71 agreements 1 104 G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of G4-LA9 Hours of training 1 26, 115 corruption 1 72 G4-LA10 Skills management 1 26, 116 G4-SO6 Political contributions 1 72 G4-LA11 Performance review and employee G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior 1 72 development 1 116 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines 1 72 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and G4-SO9 New suppliers screened using criteria for breakdown of employees 1 111, 116 f. impacts on society 1 105 ff. G4-LA13 Ratio of base wages for women and men 1 117 G4-SO10 Impacts on society in the supply chain 1 105 ff. G4-LA14 New suppliers screened using labor G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society 1 72 practices criteria 1 105 ff. G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 1 105 ff. Product Responsibility G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices 1 118 G4-PR1 Impacts of products 1 109 G4-PR2 Non-compliance with regulation concerning health and safety impacts of products 1 110 Human Rights G4-PR3 Information on products and services 1 110 G4-HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses/have undergone human rights G4-PR4 Violations of regulations concerning product screening 1 109 labeling 1 110 G4-HR2 Training on human rights relevant to G4-PR5 Surveys of customer satisfaction 1 110 operations 1 69 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 1 110 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination and G4-PR7 Non-compliance with advertising and actions taken 1 69 competition law 1 110 G4-HR4 Risk to right to exercise freedom of G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer association and collective bargaining 1 70, 118 privacy 1 110 G4-HR5 Risk of incidents of child labor 1 109, 118 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonG4-HR6 Risk of incidents of forced or compulsory compliance with laws and regulations 1 110 labor 1 109 G4-HR7 Security personnel trained 1 69 G4-HR8 Number of incidents where the rights of indigenous people were violated 1 69 G4-HR9 Operations subject to human rights reviews 1 118 G4-HR10 New suppliers screened using human rights criteria 1 105 ff. 1 no external assurance of report content »Materiality Matters« Check by GRI UN Global Compact 122 External Confirmation For this report a »Materiality Matters« check was conducted by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This check confirms, that the most critical disclosures in the report based on the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are have been correctly located at both the GRI Content Index as well as in the final report. CLARIANT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 123 Publication DETAILS PUBLISHER CONTENT AND EDITORIAL Clariant International Ltd, Muttenz GFD Finanzkommunikation, Frankfurt CONTACT DESIGN, GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT Corporate Communications Kuhn, Kammann & Kuhn GmbH, Cologne Daniel Kaufmann Tel. + 41 61 469 54 79 CREDITS Jo Röttger: p. 3, 18 – 21, 30 – 34, 40 – 44, 52 – 62; Investor Relations Tobias Gerber/laif: p. 22; Siegfried Schwirzer further: Clariant und Getty Images Tel. + 41 61 469 67 49 PRINTING Enquiries via e-mail to Neidhart + Schön, Zurich sustainability@clariant.com NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEWebsite MENTS www.clariant.com This report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and projections made by management. Such stateORDERING ADDRESS ments are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and Orders may be placed on the Clariant website other factors which may cause the actual results and performance www.clariant.com of Clariant International Ltd to differ from those expressed in, implied or sent in writing to the following address: or projected by the forward-looking information and statements. Clariant International AG The information published in this report is provided by Clariant Investor Relations International Ltd and corresponds to the staus as of the date of Rothausstrasse 61 publication of this report. 4132 Muttenz Switzerland DISCLAIMER Clariant International Ltd has published Sustainability Reports in Product and service marks protected by Clariant in many countries English and in German. The German version is legally binding. ® ™ Product and service marks licensed to Clariant in many countries © 2013 Clariant International Ltd, Rothausstrasse 61, 4132 Muttenz, Switzerland 124 Glossary ADDITIVE COMPLIANCE A substance added to products in small quantities to achieve Compliance is a key element of Corporate Governance. It refers certain properties or to improve a product (Clariant Additives to compliance with the law and directives as well as with voluntary Business Unit). codes within the company. ADSORBENTS EBIT Usually solid substances which are able to selectively accumulate Earnings before interest and taxes. certain substances from adjacent gaseous or liquid phases (Clariant Functional Materials Business Unit). EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. BUSINESS AREA In 2013 Clariant adjusted its reporting segments and grouped its ESH businesses with similar end-user markets and growth drivers into Environment, Health & Safety four distinct Business Areas: Care Chemicals, Catalysis & Energy, Natural Resources, and Plastics & Coatings. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Management body of joint-stock companies; at Clariant the CLARIANT EXCELLENCE Executive Committee currently comprises four members Clariant Excellence is an initiative launched in March 2009 with the aim of establishing a culture of continuous improvement. R&D The initiative is based on a change in mindset among all employees Research & Development and at all levels of the company. It aims to improve competitiveness through gains in efficiency and to create added value. The four FULL TIME / PART TIME / FTE elements of Clariant Excellence are: Operational, Commercial, Full time / Part time status has been derived from FTE per People, and Innovation Excellence. employee as follows: >/= 0.90 FTE has been defined as full time employment, < 0.90 FTE as part time CO2 Carbon Dioxide GLOBAL PRODUCT STRATEGY (GPS) The Global Product Strategy aims to establish global product stewCO2 EQUIVALENT ardship standards and practices for companies. The program, CO2 equivalent is a parameter describing the effect of greenhouse initiated by the International Council of Chemical Associations gas emissions. A factor known as the global warming potential (ICCA), strives to ensure the safe handling of chemicals by (GWP) shows the effect of the individual gases compared with CO2 reducing existing differences in risk assessment. as the reference value. ISO International Organization for Standardization 125 LOST DAYS PIGMENT Lost days in which an employee is absent from work due Pigments are substances used for coloring; they are used to a work-related injury or illness. in a technical manner, for example in the manufacture of dyes, They do not include: varnishes, and plastics (Clariant Pigments Business Unit). 1. the initial day of injury or illness, 2. any days on which the employee would not have worked REACH even though able to work (i. e. holidays, weekends with REACH is an E.U. regulatory framework for the registration, no scheduled work, etc.). evaluation and authorization of chemicals. LTA RESPONSIBLE CARE® Lost Time Accidents Responsible Care® refers to a worldwide initiative by the chemical industry to continuously improve its performance in LTAR the fields of environmental protection, health and safety. Lost Time Accident Rate (the ratio of the number of occupational accidents where at least one day’s work was lost STAKEHOLDER to every 200 000 hours of work) Stakeholders are people or groups whose interests are linked in various ways with those of a company. They include LWDR shareholders, business partners, employees, neighbors, LWDR = Lost Workday Rate (the ratio of the number of days lost and the community. due to accidents at work to every 200 000 hours of work) UNGC MATERIALITY MATRIX UN Global Compact is a voluntary United Nations initiative, under Presentation of relevance of pertinent topics for Clariant’s which companies commit to ensuring that their business activistakeholders ties and strategies are in line with 10 principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight OHSAS 18001 against corruption. The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) comprises, among other things, the standard OHSAS 18001 VALUE CHAIN which includes a management system for occupational safety. The value chain describes the series of steps in the production This system can be integrated into an existing quality and process, from raw materials through the various intermediate environmental protection management system and certified stages to the finished end product. accordingly. 126 Financial SUMMARY KEY FIGURES in CHF m 2013 20121 Sales2 6 076 6 038 EBITDA before exceptionals2 858 817 EBITDA margin before exceptionals (%) 2 14.1 13.5 EBIT before exceptionals 2 574 546 Net income 2 323 203 Basic earnings per share 2 0.98 0.68 Operating cash flow 301 468 Investment in property, plant and equipment 292 311 Research & Development costs 2 199 175 Total assets 8 174 9 467 Equity 2 780 2 666 Equity ratio (%) 34.0 28.2 Net debt 1 500 1 789 Gearing ratio (%) 54 67 Employees 18 099 21 202 1 Restated (see note 1.03 of the Annual Report 2013) 2 Continuing operations SALES BY BUSINESS AREA in CHF m SALES BY REGION in CHF m Total 2013: 6 076 Total 2013: 6 076 Care Chemicals 1 561 25.7 % Europe 2 321 38.2 % Catalysis & Energy 713 11.7 % Asia/Pacific 1 376 22.6 % Natural Resources 1 281 21.1 % Middle East & Africa 452 7.5 % Plastics & Coatings 2 521 41.5 % Latin America 931 15.3 % North America 996 16.4 % CLARIANT INTERNATIONAL LTD Rothausstrasse 61 4132 Muttenz Switzerland © Clariant International Ltd, 2013 SAP-Nr. 1112541 WWW.CLARIANT.COM
