GENPACT United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2014 Table of Content CEO Statement and Commitment Ownership & Financial Performance Locations of Genpact Corporate Governance Risk Assessment Framework Code of Conduct Human Rights Practices Operating Ethically Robust Governance Complete Accountability Ethical Supply Chain Sustainability & Materiality Community Impact Celebrating Diversity Environmental Performance Awards and Accolades 2 Note of Thanks Genpact would like to acknowledge the team who helped to put this report together. Sona Saptarshi EHS Leader who worked tirelessly in bringing various teams together seamlessly, Susmita Malik Head of Corporate Social Responsibility for her valuable insights, Vidya Srinivasan Head of Global Infrastructure and logistics for her inimitable support. Diana Lurie Boersma, Head of Compliance, Nandini KocharHead of Media Reporting, Sukanya Ghosh and Sujith TP from Corporate Communication, under whose guidance this report was structured and formatted to its present shape. Lastly, a special thanks to Rajitha Myneni Senior Manager, CSR who helped bring together all the required content into a cohesive whole. 3 CEO Statement and Commitment CEO Statement – 2014 I am delighted and proud in equal parts to present Genpact’s third public sustainability report based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines. This report is an extension of our commitment to transparently disclose our performance to all our stakeholders. Through this report, we wish to showcase what sustainability means for Genpact and how committed we are to achieving our vision. Our approach has allowed us to contextually define what sustainability is and how it relates to our day-to-day business. This report focusses on our sustainability performance and achievements for the year January 2013 – December 2013. We are a young and a dynamic organization. The enthusiasm and precision with which we approach our business also colors our zeal for championing sustainability. The senior leadership at Genpact has long stood by our sustainability endeavors. This is because we understand the impact we can generate and the long-term value we can create for our stakeholders through sustainability. We have not only taken inspiration from global frameworks such as the United Nations Global Compact but have also tried to mirror our internal business prowess in areas such as Six Sigma and Lean while drawing out our sustainability endeavors. This is one of the reasons why we feel that over a period of time, we have integrated sustainability to an extent into our business and thinking, as our approach has partially evolved organically through our business expertise and skills. Sustainability transcends several dimensions as does our approach. Every day we generate impact for our clients, for our employees, for our business partners, for the environment and for the communities we work for. Generating business impact We have been able to create a unique space for ourselves in the crowded and competitive outsourcing market through our unwavering focus on quality and ability to offer a palpably differentiable experience to our clients. We serve more than 800 clients around the world, more than 100 of which are Fortune 500 companies. We create a tangible and lasting impact for them through our host of services and have generated an estimated 22 billion USD worth of cumulative impact since 2006. In today’s world, there are heightened expectations from companies when it comes to ethics and transparency. We have always upheld these principles across our business practices around the world, no matter how strong or lax the regulations are in areas where we operate. We encourage this through all our engagements with our clients, suppliers and employees as well. Information security and data privacy have emerged among the most challenging issues facing our sector in recent times. This poses great risk to us as we deal day in and day out with sensitive client information. Our robust internal management systems, policies and protocols ensure that we remain immune from such threats and deliver our work with utmost business integrity. Generating people impact Talent is what drives our business especially in current times when the kind of work we do is undergoing a significant amount of transformation. As our pipeline features increasingly complex and transformational work, our talent strategy has been adequately calibrated to steer this trend. Hiring, training and retaining–all three imperatives are taken care of through our focused approach when it comes to managing our talent. Diversity has also emerged as a key priority area with significant work being done to improve our diversity record across the organization. Forty per cent of Genpact’s workforce is women. Generating green impact The list of achievements and interventions undertaken at Genpact to check our environmental footprint is endless. Our culture of Six Sigma, Lean and innovation has been adequately leveraged to deliver exceptional outcomes for the company. It is difficult for a rapidly growing organization such as ours to curb its environmental footprint but through our determination and hard work we have been able to drive down our energy, water, carbon and waste related impacts. Our innovative ideas have not only reduced our environmental footprint but have also brought in tangible annual cost savings to the tune of almost 0.5 million USD. 4 Generating community impact Our CSR efforts are distinctly characterized by the unparalleled enthusiasm displayed by our volunteers. Fifteen thousand Genpacters across the globe selflessly work towards making a difference to the world. We are simply a conduit to channel their intentions and goodwill towards generating enduring social capital. Our volunteer programme is the hallmark of our entire CSR programme. The changing regulations around CSR in India have actually reinvigorated the organizational spirit into doing way more than what the law requires us to do. Sustainability: What next? Sustainability is not a destination but an endless journey that presents ample opportunities to capitalize on and create one’s own competitive edge. There will always be room to innovate more, save more, do more and make more difference to the world around us. For us, sustainability is now a natural extension of our business and we have embodied it in our mantra of Generating Impact. We at Genpact are proud of adhering to the UNGC principles and are continuously working towards their adherence. As we look ahead, we commit to exploring newer areas, expanding our existing efforts and continuing to deepen our engagement with all our stakeholders on sustainability and taking them forward along with us. NV ’Tiger’ Tyagarajan President and CEO, Genpact 5 Ownership & Financial Performance Genpact Limited is a Bermuda company whose shares are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker: G). Genpact Limited is a global enterprise. Please see the Company's 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2014. http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398659/000119312514076650/d660707d10k.htm http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398659/000119312514076650/d660707dex211.htm For significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership, please see the beneficial ownership table on page 7 of the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on April 10, 2014. http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1398659/000119312514137953/d656165ddefr14a.htm Location of the organization’s headquarters is as below. Genpact Limited Canon's Court 22 Victoria Street Hamilton HM 12 Bermuda The table below presents our selected historical financial and certain operating data. The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial table set forth above is taken from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. 6 Locations Corporate Governance We believe that good corporate governance is critical to our success. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business practices, as embodied in our Code of Ethical Business Conduct, which sets out the guidelines for ethical conduct by our directors, officers and employees. For more detail follow this link: http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/20/209334/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidelines.pdf The Genpact Board Our corporate governance practices begin with our independent Board of Directors. All our directors possess rich multi-industry experience and are recognized for their contribution in their chosen professions. They bring to our Board varied perspectives and insights. Our Board has established an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating and Governance Committee to assist in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities. Risk Assessment Framework We have an independent audit function that reports directly to our Audit Committee. Our Chief Internal Auditor interacts directly with our senior management, including our CEO, and our independent auditor. Our board has adopted a formal charter to govern the audit committee. The internal audit team reviews and reports on internal controls within the organization. Process, financial, and compliance risks identified through risk assessments annually are reviewed by the management followed by adopting an adequate audit plan, with the approval of the Audit Committee, to address potential risks. Members of the internal audit team are rotated every 18-24 months to ensure independence. External auditors are invited to conduct audits involving complex areas Annually Genpact gets an independent audit firm (a Big 4) to conduct a Type II International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3402 audit as developed under the IAASB’s International Framework for Assurance Engagements for General Environmental Controls (e.g., IT and Information Security, Physical Security and Logistics, 7 Hiring and Onboarding, Training controls) of Genpact’s Service Delivery Locations used for provision of Services to the Clients. A copy of such report is provided to the Clients to help them comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Code of Conduct We have adopted a Code of Ethical Business Conduct that applies to all employees. Every employee is responsible for his or her own actions, and proper business conduct and ethical behavior are fundamental conditions of employment. Any employee, regardless of job or title, who observes or becomes aware of unethical or unlawful activity, is obligated to report such activity immediately. Employees are also urged to discuss any concerns regarding improper conduct with the appropriate individuals. We believe that our actions should always be guided by our core values of honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, dependability, respect, and citizenship. Our clients choose to work with us because we provide them with services that drive business value in an ethical, honest and transparent manner, supported by a strong governance framework. Our rigorous internal controls, business values and focus on controllership help us create enduring client trust. Human Rights Practices As a responsible corporate citizen, we Fair employment Child Labour and Forced recognize and acknowledge that it is Labour imperative to protect, promote and uphold the • Zero tolerance for nepotism or adverse bias. • Merit, qualifications (for example, education, • Genpact strictly prohibits employment of all human rights of all our stakeholders across the experience, or skill sets) and other jobforms of forced, compulsory and child labour organization and beyond. We are cognizant of related criteria are the sole basis for all either directly or through contractors. the role businesses can play in enforcing the employment related decisions affecting • For vendor employees, date of birth proof is employees and applicants. taken and audited in areas of high risk. above and have instituted policies and • No allowances are given to any Regular audits are conducted to mitigate mechanisms for them. Our code of conduct discriminatory practices regardless of what any instance of child/forced labour cultural practices may persist in the wider and Integrity@Genpact policies embody society. globally recognized human rights principles. • Genpact’s goal is to maintain a congenial We are thoroughly committed to providing our and productive working environment conducive for all. employees a workplace that is safe, congenial and free from harassment of any kind. Such a workplace fosters creativity, openness and innovation, all of which are essentials when it comes to building an effective workplace and Investment Screening Freedom of Association delivering uncompromising quality to our • Thorough diligence process before taking a • Genpact does not prevent any employee clients. decision to acquire stake in any company. from exercising the right to freedom of • Checks are conducted for statutory association or collective bargaining. compliances, employee welfare benefits, • We adhere to all necessary regulations A snapshot of our practices related to fair human resource compensation and benefits, related to collective bargaining and freedom employment, child labor and forced labor, right leave policy, bonus policy, policy related to of association in regions where we operate. salary increases, etc. • In Brazil and the Czech Republic, 100% of to freedom of association, investment employees are trade union association screening, privacy and discrimination and members. In Romania, we have employee representatives instead of a trade union and harassment is provided here. 100% of our employees are covered. • All local laws are observed with respect to providing a minimum notice period regarding specific operating changes Discrimination and Privacy Harassment • Genpact respects employee privacy with respect to personal information or • Genpact prohibits basing any employment communication stored on official systems, decisions on race, color, religion, sex, caste, with the proviso that Genpact may access sexual orientation, national or regional such any files/information for business origin, or any other characteristic protected reasons. For example in the course of by law. performing maintenance , security/ • Where harassment occurs as a result of an compliance issues or for a legal request etc. act or omission by any third party or • Genpact gives its employees notice that it outsider, Genpact will take all steps that are may monitor, investigate, copy and inspect reasonable and appropriate to prevent the files/information (personal or otherwise) in harassment from continuing. instances mentioned above. 8 Operating ethically Our uncompromising integrity is why our customers entrust their business to us. An essential channel of projecting our principles and integrity directly in our work is through our employees, who are the true ambassadors of our values and unyielding integrity. Our code of conduct serves as an emblem of ethical practices and expectations to all our employees, officers, directors and agents. Round the year, we conduct programs to embed these values into our employee’s regular work routine. These include training sessions and direct communication from the leadership. It is always conveyed to all our people that our business vision is to be achieved without compromising our ethical values and integrity. Besides our code of conduct, our Integrity@Genpact handbook also serves as a guiding map for employees when it comes to ethical conduct. The handbook is a reflection of how we have upheld integrity in our business conduct over the years and how we intend to continue doing so in the coming years. The Integrity@Genpact framework consists of five principles and nine policies grouped under four themes. The nine policies directly flow from the principles and serve as the means to achieve the goals rooted in these principles. A dedicated training course on Integrity@Genpact is mandatory for all Genpact recruits. An ongoing training module is also run for all employees. In 2013, 65% of our workforce including senior management underwent this training. Genpact has also supplemented its ethical framework with a transparent and an effective grievance redressal mechanism. Employees can access several modes to report any instances of violation of Genpact policies. Employees can report the same to their immediate supervisors, management representative, human resource personnel, local compliance contact, and member of the legal department or local/global ombudsperson. All our major facilities have an ‘Ombuds box’ which can be used to report violations. Employees can also directly write to ombudsperson@genpact.com. All employees raising concerns are free to report anonymously and are protected under our No Retaliation Policy. By reporting non-compliant behavior, employees play a key role in preserving the integrity of the workplace. The global or regional Policy Compliance Review Board (PCRB) takes up all submitted concerns and decides the relevant appropriate mitigation measures. The global chapter of the PCRB consists of the CEO, CFO, Human Resources head, and General Counsel. The Audit Committee of the Board also reviews all violations on a quarterly basis. A total of 510 cases were reported globally in 2013 as compared to 448 in 2012 through the Ombuds program. A part of the increase in cases reported may be attributed to the significant expansion of our compliance communication program which strives to create more awareness about the Ombuds program. In 2012, we instituted a compliance communication program and have been leveraging it to effectively deliver the message to our employees straight from the leadership that integrity and business success goes hand in hand. Under this program, a member of the leadership across regional offices is assigned with the task of communicating to employees about the Ombuds program, our no retaliation policy and another substantive compliance policy. A compliance calendar is prepared with a compliance theme for every month (In 2013, October was the month of “Fair employment practices” and “Gifting policies” was chosen for December) and relevant materials are provided by the global compliance leader at the start of each month to respective regional leaders. The primary communication mode is meant to be personal and not just email messages. Leadership engages with employees on respective themes through town halls, executive meetings, floor walks or huddles. These are then supplemented with detailed written communications. We also share actual instances where our employees or business partners have fallen short of Genpact’s ethical expectations. Recent events and news items are also brought into the picture to portray real world examples and enable better understanding for our employees. Robust governance Business excellence and long-term value optimization go hand in hand with ethical business conduct. The principles of transparency, accountability and equity set the tone for our business relationships and underlying practices. Our robust corporate governance framework ensures complete accountability, fair treatment towards all stakeholders, transparency and ethical conduct and at the same time, creates an enabling environment for sustainability to thrive in. This is imperative for the success and sustainability of our operations. Regular and stringent review processes along with methodical auditing practices ensure the percolation of our core business principles and standards across the organization. Our proactive approach is evident in our extensive risk management systems. Risk factors are identified, measured and managed continuously and responsibly via our governance framework at the entity level, business segment level and business process level. This ensures compliance with not only applicable statutory guidelines but also with our internal policies and process compliance parameters. The overall monitoring of risk levels is the responsibility of our 9 diverse board of directors accompanied by the management team which is responsible for implementing recommended mitigation measures. As we chart our ambitious growth plans over the coming years, our operations and processes will invariably become increasingly complex and preserving our stakeholder’s trust will become even more critical. Our complex global 1 operations subject us to regulation in many jurisdictions around the world that also undergo change over the years. Our robust and agile systems are by design meant to withstand this change and dynamically adapt to meet these new and challenging requirements. We have always looked beyond what the law requires of us when it comes to our bestin-class governance practices. Complete accountability The World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) In April 2013, as members of the World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption Initiative (PACI), we participated in the Anti-Corruption Workshop on India. Forty four companies from eleven countries took part in the workshop with Genpact being one of the four signatories from India. Mr. Pramod Bhasin, our Vice Chairman, played the role of a discussion leader in one of the plenary sessions on the link between corruption and competitiveness, the challenges of engaging small and medium-sized enterprises in anticorruption programs, the role of collective action and current government initiatives. The World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption Initiative (PACI) is a global, multi-industry, multi-stakeholder anti-corruption initiative set up to raise business standards and to contribute to a competitive, transparent, accountable and ethical business society. http://www.weforum.org/issues/partnering-against-corruption-initiative Genpact’s diverse board of directors embodies skill and experience of the utmost caliber rightly suited for helming the company and providing oversight and strategic direction for realizing our long-term vision. The board is composed of 2 11 directors, 10 of which are independent . All material aspects of the company such as significant financial strategies and transactions, risk management, performance evaluation and compensation of executive management, leadership succession planning, compliance, internal controls and disclosures (among others) are reviewed by the board. The board abides by our corporate governance guidelines intended to guide it in maintaining effective practices for the long-term benefit of our shareholders. These guidelines are periodically reviewed by the board in line with developments in applicable legal requirements and corporate governance standards. Our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and Integrity@Genpact Guide also apply to all directors of the board and lay down expectations from the directors when they are representing or acting on behalf of Genpact. Directors are expected to report any actual or potential conflict of interest to the chairman of the board’s Audit Committee and the General Counsel. The board structure consists of several committees established by it: an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating and Governance Committee with composition in line with applicable independence requirements of the NYSE and any other applicable legal requirements. Additional committees may be established by the board if deemed necessary or appropriate. Note: 1 For a discussion on our compliance system and the regulations we are subject to, please refer to our 10K filings available at: http://investors.genpact.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=209334&p=irol-reportsother 2 For more information on our board of directors, please visit: http://www.genpact.com/home/about-us/leadership/board-ofdirectors 3 Information on our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and charters of each of the board committees are available on: http://investors.genpact.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=209334&p=irol-govhighlights Ethical Supply Chain We work closely with our existing and new vendors to ensure strict compliance with Genpact’s environment, health and safety (EHS) standards, all applicable regulations such as labor laws and any other statutory requirement. This is done through site audits and screening processes such as police verification, background checks, etc. All vendors operating out of our facilities are contractually required to follow Genpact’s EHS practices and policies. Specific criteria are also followed based on the nature of the vendor. E.g. our food vendor has to comply with specific health-related 10 requirements and our vendor for chairs has to comply with specific ergonomic requirements. Violations by vendors are treated with suspension or dismissal. Vendors are also encouraged to raise any concern (ethical, business practice related, etc.) directly to the Vice-President of Sourcing and Compliance. Our sourcing team is also actively involved with procuring green products for Genpact facilities. The sourcing team collaborates with infrastructure and logistics, EHS and IT teams in order to procure products that help save energy and conserve resources. A database of green products has been developed for this. When procuring a product, we prefer the product that is greener, given all required technical specifications are met. Our Integrity@Genpact policy has been adapted for our suppliers (Supplier Integrity Policy) as well and is applicable to all third parties acting for or on our behalf including consultants, agents, contractors, etc. The Supplier Integrity Policy embodies all principles captured in the Integrity@Genpact framework such as respecting confidentiality, obeying laws and regulation, safeguarding Genpact assets, avoiding the appearance of impropriety and prohibiting community, gender or race based discrimination. In 2013, we undertook an extensive exercise with assistance from an external third party to map our vendors with respect to the extent of supply chain risk and also revise our vendor pre-qualification process and policy related to supply chain sustainability. The risk classification was done keeping in mind factors such as resource efficiency, health and safety, social vulnerability and business criticality. This allowed us to create customized pre-qualification requirements for vendors falling into different categories based on the risk posed. The revised process and policy are being implemented within our system and will come into effect this year. We will also provide assistance to all our vendors for adopting the new policy and practices during the implementation phase. We are also a global general member of the WEConnect International network which is a global non-profit which works towards increasing opportunities for women-owned businesses. It maintains a directory of women's business enterprises that are at least 51% owned, managed or controlled by one or more women. They identify, educate, register and certify such enterprises. Our membership provides us access to this directory which is used by our sourcing team as and when a suitable match is available in the database for the requirement at hand. As responsible corporate citizens, we at Genpact consider the sustainable development puzzle to be a key component of our responsible business agenda. It has always been our endeavor to transparently communicate our sustainability approach to our stakeholders and share our performance on key sustainability factors. Accordingly, we have been releasing annual sustainability communications since 2008. While the earlier communications were based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we started reporting on sustainability performance using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.1) framework since 2011. Sustainability What does it mean for Genpact? Generating At Genpact, we focus on long-term business Generating business Generating green viability and have a forward-looking growth impact strategy. As we slowly mature on our impact impact sustainability journey, we are increasingly moving towards completely integrating sustainability into our business strategy and making it an essential component of our day-today decision making. By integrating responsible economic growth with social progress and Generating Generating environmental stewardship, Genpact aims to people community improve the quality of life of all its stakeholders, impact impact both internal and external. We routinely adopt practices that reduce our environmental footprint, by using our naturally ’lean’ approach to operations. Additionally, we approach relationships with our stakeholders, be they employees, clients or suppliers, with unrelenting integrity. Genpact’s management and senior leadership are completely committed to allocating requisite resources for providing strategic direction to Genpact’s sustainability vision and to meeting underlying goals. Generating impact is our business motto and this has been adapted to articulate our sustainability approach. As we deliver best-in-class services to our clients with utmost integrity, create a culture that upholds human rights, develop our people and reward them for their firm commitment, conserve resources and minimize our environmental impact, create lasting value for communities we engage with, we generate impact: Business impact, people impact, green impact and community impact. This is what sustainability means to us. In the process, we endeavor to positively impact our stakeholders and strive to live up to each and every commitment we make to these very stakeholders. 11 Our stakeholders: Engage and impact Engaging with stakeholders and understanding Employees Government as well as addressing their concerns lie at the • Employee satisfaction • Engagement through heart of the concepts of sustainability and survey (annual) memberships of industry • Performance appraisal bodies like NASSCOM, CII, sustainable development. Without stakeholder (biannual) Business Processing involvement, these ideas lose meaning. At • Corporate social Association of the responsibility initiatives/ Philippines (BPAP), Genpact, those impacted by our operations and volunteering (ongoing) Association of the Business • Regular formal/informal Services Leaders (Poland activities as well as those who impact our discussions with managers and Romania) etc. (ongoing) operations are considered our stakeholders. Our • Training and development programmes (ongoing) key stakeholder groups and the respective • Grievance cell (ongoing) engagement mechanisms we deploy to form a Customers Vendors/suppliers two-way communication channel between us and them are represented in the figure. Our key • Vendor prequalification • Ongoing governance process (ongoing) stakeholder groups include our employees, our meetings at account level • Ongoing vendor analysis Our between different levels of and rating process customers, our investors, our vendors, the stakeholders the organisation (ongoing) communities we interact with and the • Net promoter score based • Engagement with vendor on process owner employees during sessions government. Using the listed engagement questionnaire (semi-annual) on promoting health and • CXO questionnaire (annual) safety related practices methods as well as others, we interact with all our (ongoing) stakeholders on an ongoing basis to understand and address their concerns. Such regular and structured engagement allows Investors Community/NGOs us to create enduring and mutually beneficial • Annual/10K report (annual) • Community • Annual general meeting interventions/employee relationships with our stakeholders. They are • Online information request/ volunteering activities contact us form around the world (ongoing) provided adequate avenues to voice their • Email alerts for SEC-related • Planning exercise with concerns with respect to their engagement with information, reports, NGOs (ongoing) webcasts and presentations, • Limited engagement with Genpact and we make it a point to fairly and scheduled events and NGOs on strengthening objectively address these issues. Our company news (ongoing) • Ongoing quarterly calls with their processes (ongoing) engagement with our stakeholders also gives us investors and shareholders critical insights and business intelligence for zeroing in on critical issues for each stakeholder group and then putting together an action plan to address them. This is essential for making our engagement more meaningful and generating the impact we set out to. Going forward, we would also like to deepen our engagement on sustainability with our stakeholders and make it more regular Materiality Issues that matter Quality of services Corporate social Data privacy and This year, we revaluated our earlier materiality responsibility information security assessment of 2011 to assess if we need to High Employee volunteering Talent development shift the lens and refocus our sustainability Transparent disclosures Diversity & inclusion efforts. We also wanted to engage more Business integrity deeply with our stakeholders on sustainability for a renewed perspective on their concerns. Carbon management We started with our earlier assessment and Transformational Green buildings juxtaposed it with current sustainability issues solutions for Impact on society faced by us, some of our global and local sustainability Green IT Employee engagement Medium peers, the IT/ITeS industry as a whole as well Water management Social/environmental assessment of suppliers as global issues being raised by the Waste management Occupational health & international community (businesses, NGOs, safety development agencies, leading international organizations, etc.) In light of these, we undertook internal discussions to revise the list Biodiversity of sustainability issues to be taken to internal Responsible policy and external stakeholders for conducting the advocacy materiality assessment based on our Low Engaging/influencing assessment of what is relevant for Genpact. suppliers Twenty such sustainability issues were shortlisted. This was followed by discussions Low Medium High with internal stakeholders to get an idea of the Impact on business extent of impact of these issues on Genpact’s business in the near future. We also conducted 12 in-depth discussions with the representatives of our key external stakeholder groups such as suppliers, customers, NGOs, etc. to get an assessment of their level of concern with respect to these issues. Both these inputs were combined to arrive at Genpact’s materiality map, shown here. Issues placed at the top-right corner represent those that bear the highest impact on our business as well as on our stakeholders. This report is an endeavor to communicate our performance as well as our approach on all material issues identified. Generating community impact Generating community impact by leveraging earnest efforts of our workforce to make a difference in the world beyond their desks, running structured programs within our limited capacity to address relevant social and environmental issues, making a contribution towards solving the bigger sustainable development puzzle as a responsible corporate citizen and ensuring the growth of the community along with ours by virtue of our overall business impact. Community Impact Our approach Recent events in response to burgeoning economic inequality have brought to the fore a growing dissent towards private corporations amongst citizens of the world. This has culminated into a crisis in itself a global trust deficit crisis. Private organizations have to understand the role they can play in ensuring a balanced, inclusive growth and addressing some of the bigger sustainable development challenges that may (or may not) affect their businesses in the short, medium or long term. Genpact understands and acknowledges this and has designed a CSR strategy based on this very understanding. We feel that our CSR efforts do play a critical role in the success of our business and we make adequate efforts to positively impact communities which are essentially the resource pool where we draw our talent from. As our business footprint grows across the world, so will our commitment to amplify our impact on society through our CSR programme. Our CSR focus areas reflect socially-relevant themes that fit well within our expertise as well as complement the skills and interests of our people. We regularly take stock of whether a shift is required in our CSR focus areas based on the global and local context in which we operate. Broadly, Genpact’s CSR approach traverses three themes:  Employability  Environment and sustainability  Inclusion These form the three vertical pillars of the foundation of our CSR programme and are supported by the following five horizontal beams: 13  Volunteering  Payroll and donations  Client and institutional partnerships  Process excellence and expertise  Communication Environment Employability and Inclusion Our CSR approach sustainability Volunteering Payroll giving and donations Client and institutional partnerships Process excellence and expertise Communication Each of our major sites conducts a CSR programme based on an adaptation of the above framework taking the local context into consideration. Employability as a focus area is ardently supported by our CSR programme. The intent is to generate sustainable and lasting livelihood opportunities. The activities under this pillar entail supporting the education ecosystem in ways that lead to generation of employable professionals as they exit the programme. Caring for the environment we live and work in is the mantra for our work and involves activities like tree plantation drives, cleanliness drives, environment walks and raising awareness of environmental concerns. For us, inclusion implies a practice of ensuring that people feel a sense of belonging to their social ecosystem which could be their organization, community or society in general. Our work in this area includes working with under privileged children, promoting girl child rights, working with habitat for humanity, disaster relief drives, etc. All these interventions are driven either by Genpact volunteers or in collaboration with credible NGOs. Each location or region with a CSR programme, depending on the need and scale of the programme, has a CSR leader who in turn has a team of CSR champs corresponding to each focus area. Based on the requirements of a particular location, there can be more than one CSR champ taking care of a particular focus area. CSR champs at each location are further supported by a team of single point of contacts (SPOCs) and a communications team. The global CSR leader is responsible for supervision and oversight of the overall CSR programme. Management, execution and governance of our CSR endeavors are also taken care of through the above structure. 14 Highest contributing Genpact Hyderabad organisation in Give received the Radisson India’s India Giving Blu Award for Challenge 2013, fourth Environmental year in a row with Stewardship. CSR 7,145,000 INR for community causes Honours wall Los Ojos de Dios Award in Mexico for continuous Heroes Award by United Way, Guatemala; Mirna 2013 support that Genpact employees gave to an Oliva was given the Gold Hero Award institution that provides (Heroe de Oro) during care, shelter and the Heroes Ceremony medical treatment to by United Way. abandoned kids with psychomotor diseases Our CSR programme engages employees across the organization, including our senior leadership which we feel is key for the success of our CSR efforts. The leadership’s involvement provides a sense of organizational ownership of its CSR vision and also acts as a great motivation tool for employees. The unflinching commitment of our volunteers in turn motivates the leadership. Genpact’s leadership is committed towards investing in the CSR programme which is evident from the program’s expansion over the years. For 2013, the spend on CSR programs amounted to 316,000 1 USD 316,000 USD Community investments in 2013 Note: 1 This includes the amount of money spent under our focus areas, sponsorships, awards, disaster relief and miscellaneous expenditure. Effective communication, more participation Penetration figures for our volunteer programme and payroll programme stood at 25% and 24% respectively in 2013. We intend to drive our global volunteer penetration to 30% and global payroll penetration to 25% in 2014. One of the ways we encourage more and more of our people to become part of our CSR programs is through targeted and effective communication. Impactful and consistent communication permeates the culture of giving within the organization which we do by implementing an effective communication plan laid out at the start of every year. Our efforts include building a powerful internal communication engine through standard branding, newsletters highlighting experiences of volunteers and the impact of our CSR activities, adequate exposure of CSR activities and recognition for our ace volunteers in town-halls as well as regular updates from the Genpact leadership itself. 15 24% Volunteer 25% 25% penetration 2012 2013 2011 18% % employees in 23% 24% payroll giving 2012 2013 2011 The communication is not just meant to inform employees about how and where they can make their contribution but to provide that extra nudge and motivation to more actively and consistently become part of such activities. The CSR teams at each location have dedicated communication personnel for executing the communication plan designed for that year. Effort is also made to connect CSR teams across the globe to share best practices. This is done through monthly calls and an annual CSR global meet. We always encourage our people to look beyond their desk and make a difference to the world. We also feel that participation in such activities inculcates values and leadership skills that we look for in our future leaders. Leading change, driving social impact: Genpact’s partnership with NASSCOM Honors in India In India, Genpact has been a lead partner with NASSCOM Social Innovation Honors since its inception in 2008. This platform encourages and recognizes innovation that creatively leverages information and communication technology to create solutions that address social issues. It identifies these showcases and awards such innovation projects by NGOs, corporates, social enterprises, government bodies, public sector enterprises, students and individuals. Genpact is proud of its association with a platform that encourages IT innovation for addressing social development. In the past, members of our senior leadership have personally been involved with this platform and have led discussions on inspiration and vision behind such innovation. Involving our clients At Genpact, we do not treat the relationship we share with our clients as purely transactional. We believe in fostering a collaborative bond that strengthens as we move forward. We encourage our clients to visit our facilities, engage with our people and participate in the Genpact experience. During client visits to our facilities, we expose our clients to the CSR programs of that particular site. Such visits allow us to explore participation opportunities for clients in our CSR programs. We have received strong positive feedback from clients and feel that this allows us to forge an informal bond that extends beyond the workspace and allows our clients to get a first-hand experience of Genpact values and culture. Over the years, numerous clients have pitched in and made a contribution to our CSR programs. Clients’ contributions have included sponsoring salaries of school teachers teaching underprivileged kids, sponsoring infrastructure at schools and providing volunteers for teaching. We extend this CSR engagement to clients by regularly updating them not only on business issues but also on Genpact’s CSR initiatives, strategies and opportunities. 16 Leveraging our expertise Genpact is a global leader in transforming and running complex business processes and operations. We use six sigma and re-engineering expertise to improve efficiency and effectiveness of our client’s operations and processes. We want to leverage the same for enhancing effectiveness of our CSR programme. Since the previous year, we have been narrowing down our engagement with institutional partners (NGOs) to the ones with whom we can have a longterm relationship and develop scalable projects. In addition, we endeavor to use our business expertise for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations and processes which in turn will lead to improving the delivery of our joint projects with these NGOs and enable the intended long term relationship. This intervention is in fact based on the need expressed by our NGO partners to assist them in strengthening their internal systems and processes which may be suited for the current scale but may require tweaking as the projects are scaled up. In 2013, with this longer term vision in mind, we started working with one of our partner NGOs in identifying areas for improvement based on the challenges being faced by them. A team of Genpact volunteers undertook this task and treated this like any other client engagement. A diagnostic was run to identify high priority areas of intervention based on joint priorities of the NGO and Genpact. A detailed roadmap was laid down with timelines and requirements which included work in areas like knowledge management and repository, database management system, human resource management, volunteer retention programme, audit framework, training and reduction in project cycle time. The next steps were laid down towards the end of this diagnostic. Implementing this plan will be one of our key focus areas in 2014. Based on this experience, we will expand our engagement on similar lines with other high potential partners. Making a difference in Mexico Genpact Mexico has been supporting local NGOs through payroll for the past two years. Our employees contributed around 4,000 USD in the first year and 9,000 USD in the second year through United Way donations to institutions that provide medical treatment to families with insufficient resources. Apanical and Aprocancer are two such institutions. Apanical has been financially assisting the treatment of kids with leukemia for more than 15 years with 21 kids receiving treatment in the last year itself. Aprocancer provides medical treatment for adults that cannot afford cancer treatment and do not have social security. More than 42 individuals received requisite medical treatment through Aprocancer (42 in total or in the previous year?). Helping victims of natural disasters around the world Victims of natural disasters struggle to rebuild their lives. Their immediate priority is food, shelter, clothing, medical assistance and security. Genpact has contributed to its capacity in order to aid this recovery process and extend all the necessary support and resources to the victims. In 2013, our employees contributed towards relief efforts for victims of the earth quake in China, floods in Uttarakhand and Czech Republic and the typhoon in Philippines by donating money, food packets, blankets, clothes, medicines, etc. Helping underprivileged girls to get on their feet Genpact works with the Udayan Shalini Programme wherein our volunteers train a batch of underprivileged girls with the objective helping them to gain employment either at Genpact or elsewhere in the industry. In Kolkata, our volunteers took a six months course in Finance, Accounts, English and Computers. The participants were put through the hiring process at Genpact with one girl getting absorbed in the Genpact family. In Gurgaon, 100 volunteers provided over 200 hours of coaching to 43 beneficiaries. 17 A few highlights of our global CSR programme 2013 Environment and Employability Inclusion sustainability Genpact China team works closely with Project Hope In Gurgaon, with the help of our partner NGO, our that has been working since 1989 to finance out-ofemployees have planted close to 10,000 trees over a World Donor Day was celebrated around the world school children in poverty-stricken areas to return to period of three years. In August last year, 1800 of our with our employees enthusiastically participating in school and build Hope primary schools to improve employees planted 4,500 trees on a single day. blood donation camps and stem cell and organ teaching conditions in rural areas all over China. donation drives organised to mark the event. In Romania, our volunteers took up flower planting In South Africa ,we have been closely working with and the clean-up of Detunata Park as part of their Klopper Park school where our volunteers mentor green commitments last year. Habitat for Humanity is a key inclusion project at Cluj, underprivileged children and provide career guidance. Volunteers research and guide pupils to gain insight Romania. On 13 May last year, volunteers spent their into the stream of their choice and introduce them to day building at the Chinteni project and helped to build Spring day was celebrated in South Africa and an the foundation of four houses. career options. entire month was dedicated to environment related activities such as plantation, rainwater harvesting, the Save Rhino project, etc. We work closely with Shoolini University, Central University Rajasthan, and IMT Ghaziabad to up-skill Raahgiri Day is an event organised by a consortium of students to take up record-to-report jobs (such as Teams around the globe celebrated with NGOs in Gurgaon wherein people reclaim streets for asset based lending, closing and reporting, financial underprivileged children. Tiger, our CEO, joined the walking, jogging, cycling and no vehicles ply on that planning and analysis, etc). More than 1000 students children in India. day. Every Sunday within a given period, a nine-km have been absorbed by Genpact so far. stretch of road is blocked to promote greener ways of commuting. We sponsor the education of 500+ underprivileged Smaller initiatives across our sites also go a long way school children in India. We have pledged to support in taking forward our environmental commitments. them till the time they gain employment. The aim of Teams participated in walkathons to raise funds for Events such as Save Energy, Save Paper drives, the privacy and security of girls and for the physically education imparted is to bring about holistic changes environmental awareness camps, Water Day, Earth in their personalities and to engender a socially challenged in Kolkata, Bangalore and Hyderabad. Day, Environment Day are other ways by which we productive outlook. show that we care for the environment. 18 Corporate citizenship data Community investment (in USD '000) CSR areas 2012 2013 Spend on activities related to CSR focus areas 149 294 Sponsorship, awards and disaster relief 146 10 Miscellaneous (communication, branding etc.) 5 3 Others 2 8 Total 302* 316 *Estimated figure Volunteering and payroll giving penetration 2013 No of Volunteering Payroll Site volunteers penetration (%) penetration (%) National capital region 4,408 24 22 Jaipur 1380 32 14 Dehradun 38 17 6 Hyderabad 1,752 15 21 Bangalore 1,070 29 23 Kolkata 863 41 22 Mumbai 45 26 Capital markets(Noida, Bangalore) 907 38 93 China 1,362 36 NA Philippines 700 18 NA Romania 1,267 58 * Hungary 179 73 * Morocco 12 46 NA Czech Republic 205 117 NA Krakow, Poland 13 2 NA Wormer, Netherlands 43 14 NA South Africa 87 79 NA UAE, Dubai 19 26 NA Mexico 478 42 97 Guatemala 300 34 86 WB-US 12 4 NA Irvine, US 37 18 NA Danville, US 100 19 NA Scottsdale, AZ Gold 7 19 NA Overall 15,284 25 24 19 Celebrating diversity of our people Genpact values the unique attributes that make each person who they are. We believe that the collective strength of a diverse and passionate talent pool is and will continue to be a crucial competitive advantage that helps us generate the desired impact for our clients. As a responsible corporate citizen, Genpact works towards creation of a balanced workplace that respects, celebrates and advocates diverse perspectives and provides equal opportunity to all based on merit, without discriminating on grounds of race, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation or any other form of differentiation. Our mission is to be a company whose employee demographics reflect those of the countries in which we operate and the clients that we serve. We target our efforts towards fostering an inclusive culture where every individual has an equal opportunity to contribute, develop and grow. We ensure no discrimination in compensation on grounds of gender. The male and female pay scales comply with the 1:1 ratio. Genpact is also committed to nurturing its differently-abled people in our workforce who are employed across the organization in different operations and functions ranging from accounting, insurance, customer care, human resources and shared services. We also engage in ventures like targeted hiring drives and job fairs for the differently-abled, special employee referral programs, engaging recruiters and consultants to identify suitable candidates, conducting sensitizing sessions, ensuring that infrastructure at our facilities is friendly to the needs of our differently-abled employees and ensuring fair and equal treatment within the organization. It has always been our endeavor to promote gender diversity across the organization. In 2013, close to 40% of our workforce was female. Women also represented around 20% of our middle as well as top management. Amongst our 10 Board of Directors, we have one woman. We also have 2 women in our Global Leadership Council which consists of 23 key executives from across our global operations including the CEO. 37.4% 18% 22% of our total workforce of our top management of our middle management constitutes of women Our strategy on gender diversity is focused on four pillars recruiting, developing, advancing and retaining women in our workforce. These four pillars are supported by regional as well as a business level strategy and dedicated plans around governance, communication and partnerships. At the time of recruitment, we make a conscious effort to hire women who aspire to grow and take on leadership positions at Genpact. During recruitment, we also convey our brand identity as a company that focuses on balanced workforce and a balanced leadership. Further, as part of our endeavor to develop internal female talent and advance them to the next level we run a sponsorship program for women, and encourage female participation in leadership development programs. The Sponsorship Program aims at increasing the percentage of women in leadership roles by building a sponsor-protégé relationship that helps high potential women navigate life events that may act as career path de-raisers, as well as enables them to access career making opportunities at the workplace. Efforts are being made to increase participation of women in leadership training programs, such as GOLD, LEAP, etc. Finally, we attempt to retain our female talent by providing them support through global networking forums, day care centers, and flexible work arrangements. The global networking forum for women, gives our female colleagues an opportunity to engage with and learn from experiences of our successful women leaders. The forums are anchored around themes such visibility, career progression, work-life balance and executive presence. Our policies on day care centers focus on women’s safety and flexible work arrangements go a long way in retaining our female colleagues. We understand the benefits of fostering a diverse workforce and have made internal commitments to improve our gender diversity record across levels. 20 Environmental Performance Environmental Conservation Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders. A key highlight for 2012-13 was to move towards a sustainable journey. Genpact upgraded its existing Safe Work Environment policy to Global “Environment Health Safety & Sustainability policy” (EHS&S) signed by our dynamic CEO ‘Tiger’ Tyagarajan This is displayed & communicated across every locations. In 2012, we released our 1st ever Sustainability Report as per G3.1 (Global Reporting initiative) guidelines eliciting our economic, social and environmental performance this was audited by an independent third party assurance as per ISAE 3000 by Ernst and Young. the report complies with GRI G3.1 guidelines with an application level of A+. To further validate our journey towards Eco transformation, Ernst and Young, an Independent third party Assurance firm validated and assured our 2011 carbon footprint data. This was poised to be 115613 tons of CO2 (for its major operating locations across India, China, Philippines, Europe) In 2012, we added many of our Global locations in our footprint including some of the acquired sites like Capital markets, this has increased our overall carbon footprint to 132457 tons of CO2, however our per employee carbon emission has reduced by 10.16 % from what we reported in 2009 data. Environmental management: A strategic approach In the current business environment, making most of the available resources and economizing on opportunities can provide that extra legroom for traversing smoothly and emerging as even more resilient for tackling such challenging times. In light of limited opportunities left for economizing, managing environmental parameters like energy can be one of the key levers with short to medium-term implications for gaining that much needed competitive edge in this highly competitive market. Over the years, we have implemented a number of technological as well as process related measures to minimize our environmental footprint. These programs have resulted in both cost savings as well as environmental benefit in terms of reduction in carbon emissions. Major technological interventions include projects like installing modular UPSs, replacing CRT monitors with TFT monitors, adopting cloud based solutions, installing LED lighting and occupancy sensors, using solar based water heaters, etc. Process improvements include data center consolidation and virtualization, energy saving drive (refer case study 3 at the end of the paper), computer hibernation, consolidated seating arrangement during weekend, etc. Sustainability is increasingly being used as a differentiator by companies in several sectors but the jury is still out on the validity and success of this argument for the IT and ITeS industry. According to a cross-industry survey by MIT Sloan Management Review and The Boston Consulting Group, over 70% respondents rated environmental issues (like energy efficiency) as significant or very significant (talkers) but only 50% of the respondents (walkers) reported to be largely or fully addressing these issues. Clearly not all companies have looked at these issues strategically or embedded these into their organizational sustainability programs and there is enough room to capitalize on this differential or arbitrage of sorts between the ‘walkers’ and ‘talkers’. As pointed before, investing in sustainability programs, if done right, can also assist in fostering innovation in the organization across functions and at the same time engaging employees with possible second tier impacts on customer experience as well. On the whole, looking at energy costs strategically through the sustainability lens can entail potential impacts not only on the bottom-line of an IT and ITeS enterprise but possibly also on the top-line indirectly through some of these channels pointed above. We have started to look at these issues through a strategic lens and are continuously linking these with our business issues like asset (seat or space) utilization, operational pattern and associated energy consumption that are specific to an IT/ITeS facility. For Genpact, It may be too early to ascertain the final combined impact of all the measures undertaken but monetary savings accruing to Genpact are already expected to be close to 400,000 USD on an annual basis (in the coming year) along with the environmental benefit of avoiding emitting several thousand tons of carbon emissions. These projects are also assisting in engaging employees, driving innovation and partly in defining what sustainability means for Genpact. The second tier impacts on the overall business are difficult to articulate and measure but nevertheless are fairly palpable in the day to day running of the organization. Engaging our employees on environmental issues is one of our prime focus areas. Throughout the year, we plan events for celebrating awareness generating initiatives such as Earth Hour to World Environment Day. We leave no opportunity to further deepen the engagement with our people. We have always abided by environmental regulations and see these as minimum requirements that we must exceed. We ensure compliance to all applicable standards for air pollution (ozone depleting substances, NOx, SOx emissions etc., primary source of air pollution from our operations: diesel used in generator sets), noise pollution, effluent quality, etc. We have been compliant with all surveillance audits and we have recorded no instances of exceeding limits so far in all our facilities. We monitor our indoor air quality performance thrice a year, in-line with necessary standards, and maintain good indoor air quality standards. 21 Genpact Global EHS&S Policy Mission Statement: Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders. Our management is committed, and provides considerable resources to meet our Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) goals which are to:  Meet and whenever possible exceed applicable environmental, health and safety (EHS) legal requirements  Adopt best practices that support conservation, sustenance and rejuvenation of the environment and natural resources  Minimize our carbon footprint and become carbon neutral in our operations  Drive active participation of all our stakeholders to promote environmental, occupational health and safety procedures through training and behavioral compliance  Provide a Safe and Healthy work environment by proactively assessing and reducing risk Energy management Cost effectiveness and agility are two of the most critical enablers for an IT/ITeS enterprise that can allow it to confidently steer through the current and foreseen headwinds in the IT space. Efficiently utilizing resources (human capital and non-human capital based resources) can enhance a company’s cost effectiveness and agility by freeing up necessary resources to focus more effectively on imperatives like improving ‘customer experience’, embedding innovation in organizational culture, enhancing ability to deliver larger transformational deals, managing changing economics of the sales cycle and dealing with the recent trend of industrialization being witnessed in the sector. Given the fact that energy costs can sometimes make up to as much as half of the non-human capital related expense for an IT/ITeS facility and the limited opportunities left otherwise for leveraging cost arbitrage, successfully managing energy costs can potentially play a strategic role in tackling some of the bigger trends being played out in the IT/ITeS space. Of course, future cost reduction comes at the cost of current investments and hence efficiently managing energy costs calls for a balancing act and often proves to be as complex and strategic as managing any other business variable. The other side of managing energy costs is the positive externality in the form of reduction in the environmental footprint as a result of the ensuing energy saving interventions. We have undertaken numerous measures over the years to reduce and manage our energy consumption. These include 1.) Replacement of old precision air conditioning (PAC) units with new energy efficient ones 2.) Installation of smart-cool in chillers 3.) Introduction of plenum in data center precision cooling, LED lighting, using R407C and R410A instead of R22 (which is a more potent ozone depleting refrigerant) for all new projects across India 4.) Providing virtual office facility to our employees 5.) Selecting green buildings for new facilities, solar heating, optimal sizing of equipment like chillers, Air Handling Units (AHU), generators, transformers etc., and many others. 6.) A combination of these and other measures have been undertaken at our sites in India, China and Philippines. Our sourcing team is also actively involved in sourcing green products for our facilities. For some of our requirements, we have prepared green material list that contains names of preferred suppliers that meet requisite environmental standards for that material. Generating Green Impact Generating green impact by adopting resource conservation principles across our operations, going beyond the law of the land when it comes to environmental compliance and standards, deploying technological as well as process related improvements and engaging our motivated workforce in our mission to efficiently minimize our environmental footprint and the associated impact. 22 Earth Hour Participation Since 2007 Genpact has been participating to support WWF initiative of Earth Hour globally, 2012 had been another year where Genpact globally participated for the earth hour drive, globally also our sites in China, Europe and Mexico also did events to raise Employee consciousness. Green IT Implementation of green IT projects has been one of the primary sources of energy savings and emission reductions while greening our operations. Typically, around 40 to 50% of the energy consumption is taken up by the air conditioning system (for data center as well as the production floors). Next is the UPS system (for workstations and data centers) which takes up close to 35% of the energy consumption. This guides the choice of green IT initiatives undertaken. Data center related interventions like data center consolidation (merging, resizing), virtualization through cloud adoption and efficient cooling technologies (plenum) make up for the heap of savings accruing from green IT interventions. Another key initiative is the installation of modular UPS systems in data centers which provides the flexibility of not installing the 100% of your planned capacity at the initial stage as the capacity of the unit is scalable. Investment in tools related to hi-definition videoconferencing and telecommunications produce significant savings in the area of business travel as well. In 2013, we rolled out of audio and video features on Microsoft Lync for 1000 employees across the globe. This enabled people to connect with their peers instantly and video functionality gave the feel of face-to-face meetings and thereby having an impact on the need to incur travel. Jabber is another tool which was made available. This enables remote users or people on the move to connect instantly through their mobile phones and make video calls. Savings from green IT initiatives have a direct positive impact on our working capital availability and cash flow situation. In 2013, more than 2.4 million units of electricity (kWh) were saved and more than 2000 tCO2e of emissions were avoided owing to our green IT investments. Water Management The water sources for our sites in India are ground water (bore well pumps), water brought by tankers and water supplied by municipal authorities. In Philippines, water is sourced from tankers and water supplied by municipal authorities. Both Europe and China rely on water supplied by municipal authorities. Our water consumption does not affect any water source significantly. Water used for drinking is either packaged or from a reverse osmosis (RO) treatment plant. In India, waste water from our operations gets treated in sewage treatment plants (STP). In our facilities in Hyderabad and Jaipur, we have started using the treated water in air conditioning cooling towers and for gardening. We can save about 270 KL of water daily from these two sites which will reduce our water consumption to half of what it is and generate annual savings of approximately 200,000 USD. In both these sites, we have also introduced an online Caustic Treatment (CT) Water Monitoring and Chemical Dosing System which is a microprocessor based system for continuous monitoring of water quality in circulation before bleeding and for optimizing chemical dosing as per the water conditions. This results in 50% saving. At the Hyderabad site, we will start using the treated water for flushing purposes after running it through a softener which will again help us save 30% water by virtue of recycling. Water from STPs is regularly analyzed and water quality reports are submitted to the Pollution Control Board. All sites owned by us have automatic water control sensors for overhead tanks and automatic shut-off for hand wash facilities. We also have signs in our washrooms advocating the need for conservation and continuous efforts are being made to ensure zero leakage in our hydrant systems and plumbing lines. Waste Management A combination of reducing, reusing and recycling waste is used to manage the amount of waste we generate through our operations. For both reusing and recycling waste, we start with segregating waste into different categories such as non-hazardous waste which includes wet waste (food), dry waste (paper waste), sludge and hazardous waste (used oil, e-waste, bio medical waste etc.). We have also started monitoring the amount of scrap we generate. All hazardous waste that is generated is disposed using authorized and accredited recyclers. We have entered into buy-back arrangements with some manufacturers and have also engaged with several third party recyclers for e-waste like computer peripherals and other electronic items. Around 47 MT of e-waste was sent to these recyclers in India in 2013. Similarly for China, around 0.5 MT of e-waste was recycled in 2013. To reduce our paper consumption, we encourage practices like two side printing, online billing, reducing font size by one unit etc. 23 Emissions Management  In 2013, the overall carbon footprint amounted to 130,845 tCO2e.  0.9% pertains to direct emissions (Scope 1) and 99.1% is indirect emission (Scope 2 and 3).  Total emissions went down by 40% as compared to 2012 and rose marginally by 3% (non-annualized) compared to the 2011 emissions. Per employee emissions also went down by almost 50% as compared to 2012 and 23% (non-annualized) as compared to 2011. People Safety We are committed to providing a sage and a congenial work environment for all our employees and we have put in place requisite policies and management systems. All our major operating sites (primarily in India, China, Mexico, EMEA, and Philippines) are OHSAS 18001-2007 certified. This allows us to identify potential hazards in our operations and minimize any health and safety related risks. Given the nature of our industry, health risks primarily relate to ergonomic related conditions like repetitive strain syndrome, lower back pain and wrist sprains. All employees have to undertake mandatory online courses on office ergonomics and EHS (environment, health, and safety) awareness. These are supplemented with other online and classroom sessions on issues like safe driving, first aid, life-saving skills, etc. which are conducted throughout the year across our sites. We plan and execute an entire engagement plan around health and safety which includes activities like newsletters, live sessions and quizzes among others centered on relevant topics like body posture, laptop ergonomics, musculoskeletal disorders, etc. Fully equipped and appropriately staffed medical centers are available at our sites. Ambulance is also available on standby in case of any emergency. For injuries and safety issues that lie outside the boundary of our offices, we engage with our employees through awareness and training sessions. These activities are managed and driven on the sites by the respective EHS single point of contacts (SPOCs). Employees can also raise any safety concerns directly to the EHS SPOC at their site or the site EHS leader or logistics leader. They can also email their concerns to a designated email address (@GenpactEHSGlobal). The emergency evacuation plans in case of a natural disaster or the preparatory mock drills are taken care of by the site floor warden. We also involve our vendor staff stationed at our sites in these training and awareness sessions as they also have to comply with all the EHS requirements applicable to Genpact employees. Ergonomics Along with Environment, maintaining a proper posture while working is also equally important. While as a part of the ongoing EHS programs, awareness on fire safety measures, emergency preparedness, food safety etc. are done on a regular basis. Special campaigns like an ERGO workshops was conducted with active participation from our employees. Future Plans for Genpact’s Sustainable Strategy 1.) Genpact came out with its 1st ever Sustainability report as per G3.1 Guidelines in 2012. 2.) Genpact firmly believes that Productivity runs through optimization, optimizing the utilization not only helps us conserve natural resources, it also helps improving the cost. 3.) Become Carbon neutral and water neutral by 2021. 4.) Construct all new Own buildings as LEED certified Green buildings. 5.) Green sourcing, in next 4-5 years we would want to focus on infusing sustainability into our supply chain and green sourcing where possible, create a Green card rating system internally to evaluate all product and equipment buys, also sustainability selection matrix to evaluate our new upcoming buildings etc. Buy recycled products or buy products which can be recycled. Example would be furniture’s, papers and other areas. 6.) Genpact is also pioneer BPO into the initiative of cloud computing, virtualization, thin client and would further deep-route its utilization to increase productivity apart from computer hibernation, printing optimization and other initiatives. 24 7.) We are also looking into options of deployment of renewable energy in operations through third party purchases and investment in wind and solar PV. Awards & Accolades Finalist The Supply and Demand Top 20 nomination End User of the Year Chain Executive – 100 Best BPO Global Shared Services Process European Great Supply Chain Company for Financial Outsourcing Network Excellence Outsourcing Projects Excellence in Technology (SSON) Asia & India award Network (PEX) Association Awards Diversity and Firms, Asia award “Excellence in Value Creation” for 13th Annual ’Pros to Know’ Awards – Suresh Americas Iyer, Global Practice Lead for Supply Chain Inclusion FinTech 100 contribution to a US investment advisory major, With Momentive Specialty Chemicals India award “Excellence in customer service” For best project “over 90 days Inc. and Momentive Performance Services and VK Gopalkrishnan, Practice Lead 2013 ranking for end to end transformation at a leading Materials Inc. for After Market Services recognised NASSCOM Corporate duration” DMAIC project done in Awards commercial finance company in US. collaboration with a top US bank Leader and Star Leader Performer International Star Performer Winner’s Circle HfS 2013 Gartner Everest Group Excellence Award, Everest Group Blueprint rankings Leader NelsonHall 2013 Magic 2013 PEAK Bronze American 2013 PEAK in enterprise analytics services and finance NEAT rankings Quadrant Matrix rankings Society for Quality Matrix rankings and accounting outsourcing (2013), Global Insurance BPO Services market (2014) and for global finance and in global FAO for third 2014 in global procurement “High Performer” in Global Mortgage in life, pensions and annuity BPO, social media services and retail banking BPO services (2013) and accounting BPO – five consecutive year and in outsourcing, global MPHRO Services BPO market (2014) Global Property and Casualty Insurance BPO market years in a row global banking BPO and global capital markets and Global Capital Markets BPO (2014) BPO NetApp DSCI Excellence Award for Leader IDC Best Business EcoAfrican Trendsetter Security – BPM Large and DSCI Excellence and MarketScape Efficiency Award Customer Value Award NetApp Excellence Security Leader of Innovation Through ranking and Best Innovation Enhancement India Innovation The Year* Award 2013 in The Outsourcing Asian Award Frost Awards BPM sector Alsbridge Innovation in worldwide life sciences sales and marketing Sustainability and Sullivan for enterprise mobility and Awards 2014 BPO (2013) and Data Security Council of India Awards 2013 Worldwide Business Leadership South Africa innovative use of data * for AR Vijay, Genpact Global Information Security Genpact-GSK partnership on GSK storage Analytics BPO Services Awards 2013 Leader “Brand Love” program (2014) Best 20 Leaders, The Astute 100, Environmental (IAOP) 2013 Global Best 20 Companies, Best 10 Double Gold and International Data Ranked #15, Stewardship Outsourcing 100® (IAOP) 2013 Global Companies One silver award at award for in Japan, Group 2013 CIO (IAOP) 2013 in financial services (banking, markets), discrete Outsourcing 100® BrandonHall Saving Water(IAOP) 2013 Awards Global manufacturing and in US and Excellence awards Corporate western Europe in financial services (insurance), research Global Outsourcing Social and development and financial for Sanjeev Prasad, Genpact Outsourcing Gold – Best talent strategy & Chief Information Officer 100® Responsibility management services 100 ® governance”, Best team development program”, Silver – Awards 2013 Best results of a learning program 25
