PDF processed with CutePDF evaluation edition www.CutePDF.com Communication on Progress 2012-2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle # 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle # 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN ipl2 KCE is dedicated and committed to upholding the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international, regional and/or local laws that apply to KCE such as the Thai Labour Standards : Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010), the Labour Protection Act, B.E. 2541 (1998) and its amendments, the Labour Relations Act, B.E. 2518 (1975) and its amendments, the Social Security Act, as well as the Workmen Compensation Insurance Act. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • To ensure that KCE is constantly improving its commitments to the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, KCE has continually reviewed and revised its policies and strategies to support human rights. Top Management shall define the policy on social and labour accountability by a written document and formal declaration, expressing the intention to confirm the requirement of Human rights, employment conditions and working condition standards. • KCE appointed an Employee & Welfare Committee, which comprised of employer and employee representatives to be responsible for carrying out activities related to the application to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards. • KCE shall conduct appropriate measures on occupational safety and health covering all areas of types of work, which may be harmful to worker’s health and safety, in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards. In order to prevent harms and to decease risk factors, KCE arrange safe working environment and provide the followings for the workers; a) An opportunity to participate in the management of occupational safety and health. b) An opportunity to get an access to the information concerning hazards which may arise from working process or working environment. 1 c) Knowledge and awareness of rules, regulations, code of practice or guideline concerning occupational safety and health. d) Trainings on occupational safety and health focusing on issues which are newly assigned or re-assigned to perform the work. e) Safety equipment which is in accordance with safety standards and suitable for working conditions of each worker. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of employment, payment of wage and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunity for training and development, promotion, termination of employment or retirement and so on, due to national extraction, race, religion, language, age, sex, marital status, personal attitude on gender or sexual orientation, invalidity, HIV/AIDS, AIDS patients, trade union membership, employees committee, political affiliation or personal opinion. • KCE ensures that corporate social responsibility, of which human right is the core component, being an integral part of the company’s strategy and that KCE continue to run businesses with responsibility for community. • KCE shall provide for and maintain the procedure to evaluate and select supplier or subcontractors who conform to the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards, in regard to human rights. ACTIONS (in 2012-2013)  KCE announced the Human resources Administration Policy on January 11, 2012 (HR announcement # 004/2555), which is in line with the business target and considering business ethics and human rights  KCE appointed Employee Committee and Welfare Committee on January 11, 2012 (HR announcement # 005/2555), The Committee is responsible for proposing a provision of comfortably accessible and adequate welfares for workers.  KCE adjusted the Pay Structure to align with current economic situation and including adjusted the minimum wage rate, April 20, 2012.  KCE appointed the Thai Labour Standards Committee on May 28, 2012 (HR announcement # 040/2555). The Committee is responsible for proposing a provision of comfortably accessible and adequate welfares for workers and implementing the Labour Standard practices. 2  KCE appointed the Internal Audit Committee for the Thai Labour Standards – Corporate Social Responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010), May 28, 2012 (HR announcement # 041/2555). The Committee is responsible for the audit of the application of the standards and assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of the management system, which will lead to continuous improvement and development.  KCE announced the Safety, Health and working environment Policy, January 2, 2013 (HR announcement # 001/2556), in accordance with laws and occupational safety and health standards.  The Company’s major suppliers are requested to send a letter of confirmation, stating that the supplier support and respect the human rights, and to complete the questionnaire. The response will be scored and the results must be at the satisfied level.  KCE provided trainings on occupational safety and health, Technical and professional education to all employees as appropriate to the job and career path (See Appendix 2)  KCE provide opportunity for self-development and further education.  KCE has continued its commitments to CSR activities (See Appendix 3) PERFORMANCE o No complaint from employee was filed to the Ministry of Labour during 2012 to 2013. o KCE was awarded an “Excellent Establishment on Safety, Health and working environment” Certificate, by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, in 2010, 2011 and 2012. o KCE was certified the achievement of the requirement of the Thai Labour Stadards – Corporate Social Responsibility, TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion level, issued by The Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, issued on 8 February 2013. The certification is valid to 7 February 2016. o KCE was awarded the AIDS-response Standard Organization Certification, “ASO Thailand – Silver”, from The Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour and the Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public Health, issued on 8 August 2013. The certification is valid to 8 August 2015. o KCE was awarded an “Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare” Certificate, by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, issued on 13 September 2013. 3 LABOUR Principle # 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle # 4: Business should elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. BOUR Principle # 5: Business should effect the abolition of child labour. Principle # 6: Business should the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 3rinciple 4 The Thai Labour Standards: Corporate social responsibility of Thai Business (TLS 8001-2010) is written within the provisional scope of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, provisions of the labour laws concerning labour protection, occupational safety, health and environment, labour welfare, and labour relations. Moreover, related conventions of the International Labour Organization and of the United Nations are also brought into account. KCE recognizes that employees are our greatest asset. To ensure that we are able to recruit, hire, and retain the talented individuals in our organization, we strive to assist all of our employees in maintaining a balanced work life and to provide flexibility to employees on an individual basis. • KCE respects the right of a worker to establish or become a member of a trade union or other committees in the company, and the right of worker to bargain collectively, without imposing obstacles or any kinds of sanctions on such activities. • KCE shall not engage in or support the use of forced and compulsory labour in any forms. • KCE shall not hire or give support to hire a young worker under 15 years of age. • KCE shall not engage in or support any discrimination in respect of hiring, employment, payment of wage and remuneration, providing welfare and opportunity for training and development , promotion, termination of employment or retirement POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • Union-neutral policy: An employee representative will not be subjected to discrimination, displacement or dismissal, or other illegal actions. 4 • The Company management provides facilities to the Union or employees’ representative in regards to carrying out their functions: collect annual union member fee via payroll deduction time-off with pay for union activities: Union committee meeting, Union Annual General Meeting (AGM) arrange for meeting venue outside the company for the Union’s AGM provide partly financial support for union activities allow Union’s activities during the regular working hours, as requested Provide bulletin board to post the Union notices • HR administration policy, addressing the issues of the human rights: The HR policy takes in to the account of the company’s strategy and conform to the business ethics and the equitable treatment of employees. The HR policy has a clear, transparent and fair procedure. The Company will recruit and hire a person who is suitable to the job, base on skills and experiences and other qualifications as required. The Company will pay wage and remuneration according to the Company’s pay structure, which is based on the job responsibility, economics and the wage rate of the current market. The Company support HR development, as well as, self development, so that employees are knowledgeable and continually increase their efficiency in the responsible duties. • There is no requirement that workers lodge financial deposit with the company. • KCE recognizes the importance of the workforce and prohibits any form of forced or compulsory labour. Workers in debt bondage or in other forms of forced labour are not engaged and, where found, provide for the removal. • The policy for pregnant employee is announced, that pregnant employees are prohibited to work in situations deemed as detrimental to the pregnant, the health and safety to woman, and is prohibited to work during 22.00 – 6.00 hr., to work overtime, to work on holidays so that they can take care of their health. • The minimum wage age provisions of Thai Labour law is of 15 years of age. However, KCE prohibits employee under the age of 18 year. 5 • In the recruitment procedure, adequate verification method for age will be employed to ensure the validity of the age. • KCE seeks to disseminate to the staff, among other relevant information, applicable laws and regulations, international regulations ratified by the country on eradication of child labour and current debates about these issues. • Grievance procedures regard discrimination, where found. • KCE offers equal employment opportunities to all. The people we recruit and promotion are selected on merit and suitability. • KCE has an annual performance and career development review process which provides all employees with the opportunity to receive regular reviews, regardless of job, grade, gender, age or ethnic origin. • The recruitment and selection process for employment are based on non discrimination policy and the guideline of Thai Labor Standard • All employees are awarded equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. KCE started to conduct a training needs analysis for specific roles within the organization. • The recruitment and the selection process of employees of KCE are based on non-discrimination policy and the guideline of Thai Labour Standards • Every employees salary increase is depending on their performance and their added value of their work. All employees are accorded equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. • We seek to eradicate discrimination, increase cross-cultural understanding and eliminate workplace violence and harassment. In addition to all above, KCE organizes in-service training which are earning languages, training first aid, rules of protocol, training occupational courses, and personnel developing courses, team work and regular social events, which are New Year party, Walk Rally, and other sport activities. • KCE’s employees are not discriminated against because of gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age. ACTIONS (in 2012 – 2013)  The Union was in cooperation with Company’s Management in various activities as follows: 6 an annual collective bargaining as forum to improve employment term and other benefits and welfares Regular meeting Participation in the company’s activities, as well as CSR activities  KCE appointed Employee Committee and Welfare Committee on January 11, 2012 (HR announcement # 005/2555). The committee composed of 6 representatives from employee and 5 representatives from employer. The Committee is responsible for proposing a provision of comfortably accessible and adequate welfares for workers, consider the Grievance from employee and resolve any conflicts, if any.  In February 2013, the collective bargaining were conducted to address issues of working condition and welfares. The negotiation reached an agreement for both parties.  KCE has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about the working terms and conditions. KCE employee’s policies are specified within employment contracts. These contracts clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights. So, all employees are aware of its existence and must agree upon it before signing.  Regularly review timecard, payroll and production records in respect of incorrect record keeping, incorrect or non-payment of wage and excessive overtime hours and verify their accuracy through worker interviews.  KCE employee manual defines work hours. The overtime procedure has a provision for employee to sign if he/she agrees to render more than 8 hours on duty. Those on overtime are given premium in pay according to the labour law, travel allowance from and to their home and meals allowance.  KCE announces child labor policy employees, related suppliers and subcontractor to follow accordingly In its contract with supplier, the company requires from its suppliers a declaration that they do not employ child labor  An Employee Satisfaction survey was conduct in April 2013, the result was summarized at an average of 57%, representing moderate level of satisfaction. The least score category was considered for action plan for improvement. 7  The Company keep communicating with employees in order to get feedback, needs and problem occurred, through various channels; Reports from the supervisor Employee satisfaction survey Grievance by employee, via personal consultation, telephone, e-mail or comment box  KCE participated in the accreditation of Thai Labour Standard project of the Ministry of Labour Department since 2010. Recently, the Company was certified the achievement of the requirement of the Thai Labour Standards: Corporate Social Responsibility, TLS 8001-2010 Certificate Completion level, issued by The Department of Labour Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labour, issued on 8 February 2013. The certification is valid to 7 February 2016.  Moreover, the Company has been honorably awarded “Excellent Establishment on Labour Relations and Welfare” Certificate, by the Department of Labour Protection and welfare, on 13 September 2013. PERFORMANCE o 60 % of employee represented by the union. o List of established Associations: • Labour Union • Employee and Welfare Committee • Safety Committee • 5’ S Team • Thai Labour Standard Committee o There was no conflict between employees and employer of the Company. o All employees earned greater than the stipulated minimum wage. o KCE does not employ child labour, all our employees are over 18 years old. o KCE ‘s risk management demonstrates that there are no situations in current or planned business arrangements in which child labour is or is likely to be a factor. We have appropriate systems in place to ensure that we do not employ child labour. o We have enhanced our ability to identify opportunities to influence others to abolish child labour and are considering further embedding this within our existing risk management systems. 8 o Neither employees nor the Union filed the case regarding unfair treatment against the Company to the Ministry of Labour, in accordance with the Labor Relations Act, B.E. 2518 (1975). o Employee’s complaint was at the average of less than 1% a year. o In 2013, KCE employed a total of 805 employees. All KCE employees were above18 years of age and no employees were between 15-18 years of age. Age 18+ yrs. Age 15-18 yrs. Handicap Men Woman Men Woman Men Woman 2013 418 387 None 4 1 ONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principle # 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle # 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. BOUR Principle # 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE recognizes the importance of being a socially and environmentally conscious company. KCE committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, as well as, encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KCE demonstrates our commitments through a strong set of policies and objectives that shape the scope of the business and the way that it deals with clients and suppliers.8 POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • KCE is committed to establishment of Environment Management System through complying with the KCE Environment Management Policy as follows: 9 The Company will continuously meet the legal requirement as well as contributes to the improvement of environmental issues. Reduction of waste materials Effective and efficient utilization of natural resources. Continuous assessment and evaluation of the environment management system, to review objectives, and targets to ensure success of the effectiveness of the system. Promote and develop staff awareness and responsibility to the environment through communication, provision of relevant information and cooperation among staff, suppliers, customers, government agencies, the private sector and the general public. • KCE applies the precautionary principle and seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environment impact assessments and reviews are carried out regularly in accordance with international standards and industry requirements. • KCE aims at collaborating with stakeholders for protection of environment quality and values by using every effort in the utilization of energy and natural resources for a sustainable life and environment, working for the development and implementation of environmental friendly and clean technology and voluntary adopt environmental management systems and environmental standards, in addition, the Company must collaborate and exchange information with local, national and international environmental organizations to that end. • KCE has maintained strictly environmental law and other regulatory requirements, including concerned environmental directives, such as RoHs, WEEE, REACH and etc. • KCE has provided on-going induction and training on the environmental management awareness to provide employees with an insight into our environmental efforts at both operations and office levels. • KCE will continuously improve our environmental performance by implementing the follows: promote environmental awareness integrate environmental consideration into the business process develop and apply sustainable process and products reduce our use of resources and strive to prevent pollution monitor and evaluate environmental performance throughout the entire supply chain engage in stakeholder dialogue and partnerships and report on our performance comply with environmental legislation and relevant requirements 10 • The Company has promoted environmental awareness throughout the organization, Manager and employees have joined with the growing of the Mangrove Forest Project at Cultivation Department, Petchaburi. • KCE started to reduce paper consumption and encourage its employees to use alternative products such as recycle paper and avoid unnecessary expenses. KCE encouraged the staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail to minimize paper usage. • Energy and natural resources are utilized effectively and efficiently. The Company has established waste water treatment plant and air emission prevention system to treat waste water and air before discharge. • KCE is committed in contributing to the development of public policy and to businesses, government agency, international programs and non-government organizations’ initiatives that will enhance environmental awareness and protection through the public release of selected research findings. • KCE is dedicated to create more environmental friendly products; to product environmentally safe PCB products and work with our customers and raw materials suppliers to produce environmental friendly products, such as Lead-free and Halogen-Free products, as well as the use of environmental friendly packaging materials, the bubble sheet instead of plastic foam. ACTIONS  During 2012-2013, KCE satisfied the surveillance audits for the re-certification of the ISO 14001 and the ISO 16949  Appointed the Energy conservation committee to participate in an energy saving project. The electricity and water consumption target were set.  Set up a team to work on the reduction of waste from the production process.  Promoted safety and environment awareness through fun activities during the Safety Week event.  Initiated a project for a paper usage reduction in the administrative office, and the result showed a successful reduction of the paper usage in each month. PERFORMANCE o KCE was successfully passed the audit for the re-certification of the ISO 14001 (issue 2 & 4), as well as the ISO 16949. o The Energy conservation committee achieved the consumption target: 11 1. Electricity consumption reduced to 4.5 k.W.hr/sq. ft. or 6.15%, which represented a saving of Baht 152,000 per month 2. Water consumption decreased by 0.11 cu m / sqft. 3. Waste from process: A target was set at less than 0.93% for Inner layer and less than 4.50% for outer layer. o KCE was awarded the following: ISO/TS 16949: 2009, valid from 13 July 2012 – 12 July 2015, certified since 18 July 2003 ISO 14001: 2004 (issue 2 & 4), valid from 28 Mar 2011 – 28 March 2014, certified since 28 March 2002, in regards to the Effective Environment Management System and Quality Management System. Environmental Performance in 2012 and 2013 Analysis Item Frequency Parameter/Test Item Period Result Air May, November 2012 Accept Twice/Year Air in workplace April, December 2013 Accept May, November 2012 Accept Twice/Year Air emission from stack April, December 2013 Accept May, November 2012 Accept Twice/Year Total Dust April, December 2013 Accept Total Suspended Particulate May, November 2012 Accept Twice/Year (TSP) April, December 2013 Accept May 2012 Accept Sound Level Once/Year Sound Level in workplace April 2013 Accept May 2012 Accept Light Once/Year Light in workplace April 2013 Accept Level of Heat Stress in May 2012 Accept Heat Stress Once/Year workplace April 2013 Accept PH January-December 2012 Accept Waste Water Twice/Month Metal Content January-December 2013 Accept 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle# 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. KCE managed its business with honesty, fairness, transparent and committed to responsibility to social and all stakeholders, in compliance with the accepted good corporate governance principles and business ethics. KCE believes that the bribery and corruption issues must be tackled by all levels of society. KCE’s role as a private company is to act responsibly in all aspects of how KCE conducts business, as well as actively support relevant initiatives to combat corruption. POLICIES AND SYSTEMS • Committed to the Anti-corruption policy, the Directors, management executives and all employees of the company will not accept all forms of corruptions, covering all areas of business and all related sections in the organization. • The Company’s Directors is responsible for setting up a policy and ensure that an efficient system to detect the corruption is in place. • The Company’s code of conduct and the Business ethics must emphasize on the anti-corruption. • The Company’s Financial Statements are reviewed quarterly and audited by a qualified external auditor, whom is fully independent. • All information presented in the financial reports is correct, complete and reliable. It was prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles and appropriate standard. • KCE strives to give all parties an equal treatment consistently with the SET framework by avoiding favoritisms or situations where conflicts of interest may arise. • The Directors, management executives and all employees must comply with the Company’s Code of Conduct, where the sensitive issue is involved. • Whistle blowing: the Company has a policy to receive information regarding wrongdoing, violation of the law, regulation or Good Corporate Governance principles or corruption, directly through the Audit Committee. 13 ACTIONS  KCE’s Board of Directors appointed a Corporate Governance Committee on September 17, 2013. The CG Committee is responsible for managing and controlling the company operations in accordance with the company’s good corporate governance, policies and related laws.  On 18th November 2013, the Company signed a mutual agreement with the Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC). The Company is currently working towards the certification process.  The Company announced the Anti-corruption Policy, which was approved by the Board in Feb 18, 2014.  At the orientation for new employee, the company describes KCE business ethics and all employees must sign for their acceptance to strictly comply with the employee’s code of conduct. PERFORMANCE o There was no fraud reported by the internal auditor. o The 2013 Audit Committee’s report confirmed that: The company’s financial report, for the year ended 31 December 2013, was prepared in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles are accurate, complete and reliable, with a reasonable application of accounting policy. The company’s internal control systems are adequate and appropriated. All related party transactions are part of the company’s normal course of business with regular commercial terms, sensible and fair conditions and for the maximum benefits to the Company. The Company is fully complying with the Public Company Act and Stock Exchange of Thailand’s regulations, as well as other laws pertaining to the Company’s business. o Business code of conduct and practical guideline will be completed within 2014. 14 Appendix 1: Certificates/ Award 15 16 17 Appendix 2: Training and Development KCE has a policy for employee development program to enhance their knowledge and potential. In 2012 the training courses for the employees included, but not limited to, the followings; No. Course Objective Target Group Date Period No. of trainee Safety 1 Safety in the workplace for To comply with law. And to know Sr. Foreman, Foreman, Mar 27, 2012 8.0 32 about. Safety in the workplace. Safety supervisor and Management Operator and laws. Including the prevention and control of accidents and occupational Management diseases 2 PPE (Personal Protection For employees informed of the nature, All employee Sept 13, 2012 7.0 50 Equipment) functions, and methods of use about PPE 3 Chemical Hazard Training For safe / handling , storage and All employee Feb 13, 2012 3.0 43 disposal of chemical 4 Internal Auditing TLS 8001 To setup standardize internal auditing Thai labour standard May 24,2012 7.0 12-15 process to be in accordance with Thai Board Labour Standard TLS 8001-2010 5 ERT(Emergency Response To train Emergency Response Team ERT Team July 21,2012 8.0 25 Team ) 6 Fire Fighting and Fire Drill To educate Fire Flight and Fire Drill ERT Team and all Dec 26, 2012 4 858 Employee 7 Safety officer Training To educate staff regarding work safety; Officer Dec 14, 2012 8 33 safety and relevant laws; prevention and control of accidents, occupational health risks, identification of incidence and illnesses from occupation or industry. 8 Continuous 5 S For Practical and visual feedback All Employee Aug 10, 2012 7.0 59 Photography five time in 2011 9 Emergency control of fire To help trainees to control fires that are Employee associated Sept 29, 2012 7.0 40 caused by short – circuited caused by electricity and flammable electricity gas such as Acetone 10 JSA – Job Safety Analysis To follow the guideline for Hazard Safety Board May 29,2012 7.0 40 Identification & Risk Assessment 18 No. Course Objective Target Group Date Period No. of Trainee 11 Forklift Skills and Safety To develop skills in using Forklift and Employee of Mar 23, 2012 7.30 23 Training to follow safety procedure Warehouse , Material Preparation, Stock Finished Goods Human Resource 12 Home Service System All employees to have a better All employee Feb 24, 2012 1.0 30-40 understanding on how to operate the ( a system that manages Home Service system. KCE internally ) 13 Effective Coaching Skills ( To training new knowledge , role and Sr. Supervisor Mar16, 2012 7.0 40 Foreman) understanding of effective coaching /Supervisor/Sr. skills Engineer/ Engineer 14 8D (8D Problem Solving To improve Quality Control System Sr. Supervisor Nov 27, 2012 7.0 37 Process) through problem analysis and /Supervisor / Sr.Officer corrective action as well as preventive / /Forman/Leader action annually. 15 KPIs To help staff at all levels to have the Sr. Supervisor July 6, 2012 1.0 71 knowledge and clear understanding of /Supervisor/Sr. the concept and able to implement KPI Engineer/ Engineer to measure the performance of each individual’s work. 16 Seven habits of Highly To facilitate develop of 7 principles; Sr. Supervisor Sept 22, 2012 8.0 69 Effective People vision, leadership, interpersonal /Supervisor/Sr. relationship, communication, empathy, Engineer/ Engineer teamwork and creativity /Foreman and Officer 17 Teaching Skills To train and educate the teaching Sr. Supervisor Mar16, 2012 7 40 skills /Supervisor/Sr. Engineer/ Engineer Environment 18 ISO50001 : 2011 Workshop on Understanding of Sr. Officer /Officer Mar 8, 2012 6.0 49 ISO50001:2011 /Forman/Leader 19 ISO 14001:2004 To help employees at the supervisor Sr. Supervisor Feb 15, 2012 8.0 27 level to understand the regulations /Supervisor/Sr. regarding environmentally related Engineer/ Engineer issues 19 No. Course Objective Target Group Date Period No. of Trainee 20 Role, Duties and Provided annually by experts in areas Sr. Supervisor Oct 16, 2012 7.0 35 responsibilities of the of energy conservation /Supervisor/Sr. working committee and Engineer/ Engineer superintendent on energy management 21 Awareness of energy To point and participate of awareness Sr. Supervisor/ Oct 5, 2012 3.0 41 conservation of energy conservation for relate with Supervisor / Sr. Officer law Forman/Leader 22 Aspect Identification for In order to comply with law and to Sr. Supervisor Aug 15, 2012 7.0 36 Environmental System know about safety in the workplace. /Supervisor/Sr. Safety laws, including the prevention Engineer/ Engineer and control of accidents and occupational diseases. 23 Leadership Role, duties and responsibilities of the Sr. Officer /Officer Sept 19, 2012 7.0 29 working committee and superintendent /Forman/Leader on energy management In 2013 the training courses for the Employees included, but not limited to, the followings; No. Course Objective Target Group Date Period No. of Trainee Safety 1 ERT (EMERGENCY To train Emergency Response Team Emergency Response 20 Mar 2013 3.0 30 RESPONSE TEAM) Team 2 Fire Suppression Basis 1.To educate cause and prevention All Employees 13 Mar 2013 7.0 48 of fire 2.To educate how to use all fire suppression equipments. 3 Safety Officer in Executive To comply with the rules. Leader, Foreman, 22-23 Feb 12.0 40 Level Supervisor, Engineer 2013 4 Forklift Skills and Safety 1. To develop skills in using Forklift. Warehouse , Material 18 Mar 2013 7.0 24 Training 2. To educate for maintenance. Preparation, Stock Finished Goods 20 No. Course Objective Target Group Date Period No. of Trainee 5 Safety for Working with XTo comply with the rules and X-ray Area Staff 23 Apr 2013 3.0 5 rays. educate how to prevent dangerous when working with X-rays. 6 Quality to be pregnant To educate quality pregnant for Pregnant Employee 13 Jun 2013 3.0 14 mother and comply with the rules. 7 Safety for Chemical Handling 1.To educate dangerous from Sr. Supervisor / 25 Jun 2013 6.0 41 and Storage chemical. Supervisor, Sr. Engineer 2.To how to prevent dangerous /Engineer working with chemical. 8 Annual Fire Drills and 1.To comply with the rules. All Employees 10 Dec 2013 0.5 1,731 Evacuation. 2.To educate how to survive and move from fire area. 9 Advance Fire Fighting For the To educate ERT Team. Emergency Response 7 Dec 2013 8.0 19 year 2013 Team 10 Basic First Aid To educate basic first aid. Foreman, Leader, 14 Dec 2013 6.0 22 Operator Human Resource 11 Plant KPIs To educate Plant KPIs which related Operator 23,29-31 Jan 1.0 300 to other Plant KPIs and individual 2013 ,KPIs. 12 Confirm Functional To educate Functional Competency. Sr. Supervisor/ 15 Feb 2013 6.0 20 Competency Supervisor, Sr. Engineer /Engineer 13 Technical for discipline To educate discipline to Executive Sr. Supervisor/ 14 May 2013 3.0 37 Level. Supervisor/ Sr. Engineer /Engineer / Sr. Officer/ Forman/Leader 14 Core Competency for KCE 1. To educate Core Competency. Sr. Supervisor/ 26-27 Jul 2013 12.0 61 GROUP 2. To implement Competency. Supervisor/Sr. Engineer /Engineer /Sr. Officer 15 HP Blade System, NetApp, To educate IT Infrastructure of the Asst. Manager, 24-26,30 July 24.0 10 VMWare,Test DR Company. Supervisor /Engineer 2013 16 Task Management & People To educate Task Management & Sr. Supervisor/ 5,11,14 Nov 6.0 45 Skill People Skill. Supervisor/Sr. Engineer 2013 /Engineer /Sr. Officer 17 Inco-terms (International To update Inco-terms Asst. Manager/ Sr. 18 Nov 2013 3.00 16 Commercial Terms) 2012 Supervisor / Supervisor /Officer 21 No. Course Objective Target Group Date Period No. of Trainee Environment 18 Monitoring for energy To prepare the annual energy Conserve Energy 5 Jul 2013 4.0 13 management management report. Committee 19 Basic of RoHs, Recch, 1. To educate RoHs, Recch, WEEE's Sr. Supervisor/ 28 Nov 2013 3.0 33 WEEE's 2. To educate the method to Foreman, Leader, chemical control in production Operator process. 20 Standard for usage handling 1.To educate Standard for usage Sr. Supervisor/ 13 Jun 2013 2.0 17 and storage chemicals. handling storage chemicals. Supervisor, Sr. Engineer 2.To prevent danger from usage /Engineer, Sr. Officer, handling and storage chemicals. Foreman , Operator 21 ISO 14001:2004 Awareness 1.To educate environment Manager/ 20 Sep 2013 6.0 34 and Requirement management system. Asst. Manager/Sr. 2.To specify rule of environment Supervisor /Supervisor management for ISO 14001:2004 /Sr. Officer ENVIR 22 Appendix 3: CSR activities In 2012 and 2013, KCE together with the employees have participated in the following activities:  Gift donation for children on the Children’s Day, in the area around the factory, on Latkrabang Industrial Estate January 2013  Gift Donation for the children of Iam-Suree School and Nikot School in Samutprakarn Province  Public Service activity through beach cleaning at Hua-Hin, Petchaburi province 7 July 2012  Public Service activity through beach cleaning at Cha-Am, Petchaburi province 6-7 July 2013 23  Mangrove Planting in honor of Her Majesty the Queen and His Royal Highness Crown Prince MahaVajiralongkorn at Bang Poo, Samutprakarn  Twenty scholarship funds, each at 2,500 Baht to the children of KCE employees  Scholarship donations for KokLamduan School, AmphurSrikornphum, Surin Province  Scholarship donations to the chilldren of the soldiers in Surasi Military Camp, Kanchanaburi  Donation sport equipment for Surasi Military Camp, Kanchanaburi  School equipment donation for disadvantage children of Petchaburi Panyanukul School, Petchaburi Province  Scholarship and school equipment donation to WatKhaoTatone, Petchaburi Province  Poppy sale support on Veterans Day  Social activity with Lumputtra Community such as training for Enzyme Ionic Plasma and EM (Effective Micro-organism) to increase the agricultural productivity and waste treatment.  Sponsor for “ Love & Care for the Elders Project” at Wat Bung Bua Community, LatKrabang  Blood donation by KCE employees to the Red Cross through LatKrabang Industrial Estate Blood Donation Project.  Blood donation by KCE employees through Red Cross Mobile Units.  Scholarship donations for Mahidol University graduate students.  Donations of money and other necessary items, such as rice, preserved food and medicines, to help patients with HIV at Wat Phrabat Nampu, Lopburi province 24  Social activities at Nong-Hin School, Suphanburi on November 3 , 2012  Social activities at Tung Pajarn School, Uthaithani Province on December 3 , 2012  Social activities at Blind School, Bangkok Province on January 24 , 2013  Conservation activities, traditions and supporting religious at Ang Thong Temple, Chachoengsao Province on July 27, 2013 25  Environmental activities at Samutsakhon Mangrove forest Research Center, Samutsakhon Province on August 24 , 2013  Social activities at Phrabatnampu Temple, Lopburi Province on October 19 , 2013  Social activities at Ban Tabkwang, Saraburi Province on Nov 16 , 2013 26
