QCC Interscan Ltd United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress From August 2014 to August 2015 Accredited to: ISO 9001: 2008 ISO 27001: 2005 ISO 14001: 2004 ISO 18001: 2007 QCC – “Keeping your business, your business” 1 Statement of continued support for the CEO I am pleased to confirm that QCC Interscan Ltd reaffirms and fully supports the ten principals of the Global Compact with respects to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its ten principal’s into our strategy, culture and day to day operations within our company and its employees, and to engage in collaborative projects that may advance the broader development goal of the United Nations. QCC Interscan Ltd will make a statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and general public. QCC Interscan is recognised for our specialist expertise, innovative intelligence led approach to our services and proven track record, as part of our service we provide advice and solutions that enable our clients to manage and mitigate their business risks, with growing numbers of clients we are closely monitored and we monitor companies’ social performance on ethics, labour issues and environmental as well as human rights concerns In our quest to ensure a holistic and engaging approach to client services. During our steady growth we have recognised the need for the continued development of our systems and policies, This is evidenced by gaining accreditations of ISO 9001: 2008 / ISO 27001: 2005 Quality Management ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental Management 18001: 2007 Health & Safety, during this process we completed a full upgrade of our Company Policies & Procedures that will support our business processes of those values. Particular emphasis is being placed on our Ethical Code of Conduct, Business Integrity and our Human Rights performance. James Williams Operations Director 2 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2.1 Commitment We have adopted all aspects of the principles in our business conduct, both with clients who are VP’s signatories and with other clients and entities who face similar challenges. 2.2 Implementation QCC Interscan has systems and policy’s in place to assist and manage the companies approach to Human Rights, we are in the process of implementing an ethical code for suppliers and contractors that highlights the ten principals of the UN Global Compact, our suppliers and contractors are expected to adhere to these principals throughout their operations with QCC, As part of QCC commitment to Un Global Compact and overall company improvements QCC has linked this with its ISO 9001/27001 Quality Assurance Manual and new policies and procedures such as Equality and Dignity at work, Corporate Social Responsibility, Company and Contractor Handbook. These are internally audited monthly with reports back to the Management Team and externally audited annually to recertify for ISO. 2.3 Whistleblowing Personnel have access to an external HR Consultant where they can report any concerns without fear of retribution, if they feel unable to raise the issue with their line manager, we recognise our collective accountability as a company for our actions and the consequences of our actions, and the need for an effective investigations process for third party complaints is in place under ISO guidance. 3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should abolish child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3.1 Commitment The effective management of equality, ethical code and Code of Conduct Implementation. QCC throughout its ISO Accreditations has produced minimum expected standards for contractors, suppliers and all staff; this is monitored by the internal auditor and the HR Manager. While operating in other countries as well as the United Kingdom, QCC Interscan commits to comply with local and national legislation with regards to employment laws. If such legislation does not meet our own standards, we will apply our own ethical standards that condones forced and child labour. We have a rigid vetting processes that is applied whenever we are recruiting new company employees, and those processes are adapted for use when engaging sub-contractors, agents, representatives, partners and suppliers. QCC recognises the value of well trained and motivated employees, indeed this is paramount to a successful business and the quality of our work produced for our clients. QCC fully endorse appropriate internal and external training and development opportunities for all staff to assist them achieve their full potential. QCC Interscan will promote gender equality throughout any recruitment process, not discriminating in race, age, religion, sex or disability making sure no unconscious bias is evident in the recruitment and decision process. 4 Environmental Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 4.1 Commitment QCC Interscan is a small company operating globally and our organisational footprint has a minimal impact on the environment, QCC recognises its responsibility to do everything possible to make a positive contribution to the environment, and takes steps, however small, to realise that aim. As a minimum we strive to make ourselves aware of global and region specific environmental legislation and codes of conduct wherever we operate, As extensive business travellers, when travelling by air we actively support airlines’ initiatives to offset their carbon footprint by contributing on a flight by flight basis. As part of our ongoing commitment we have been accredited to ISO 14001 2004 Environmental Management and out Environmental Review Management Plan fully covers these Principals and All employees are made aware of our environmental aspirations through the above initiatives and training, we actively encourage all staff contractors to actively pursue them. Current performance monitoring is carried out by the company’s internal auditor and reported back to the Management Team monthly. 5 Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 5.1 Commitment code of conduct QCC Interscan Equality and Dignity at Work policy and Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy addresses the issues of bribery and corruption. All staff and contractors are made aware of our ethical conduct and business integrity expectations, this is in order to safeguard our reputation and the interests of our Clients, we also ensure all our clients are aware through their contractual arrangements of that commitment, and we seek and encourage cooperation in its implementation. Through the company’s induction programme for new employees and through its annual performance appraisal management process, employees are reminded of their responsibilities and the company’s expectations regarding ethical business conduct.
