DGB Financial Group 2013-2014 Sustainability Report Jump Up Together Towards TheJump BetterUp Together Towards The Better A four-leaf clover is the symbol of DGB Financial Group’s sustainability report, with each leaf symbolizing one of our four core values: ethics and corporate culture, sustainable finance, social contribution, and environmental management. This represents DGB Financial Group’s goal of creating a happier and healthier future through balanced growth in all four areas. A blue bird flying in a blue sky expresses our ethics and corporate culture of reaching for our dreams. Our emphasis on achieving a real work-life balance will help create a workplace that both satisfies and rewards all employees. A seed in a yellow leaf represents sustainable finance, which will allow us to grow with local communities. DGB Financial Group devotes itself to contributing to the local economy; thus sowing the seeds for a better regional financial base. A flower in a red leaf reveals our full-hearted commitment to social contribution. DGB Financial Group promotes the development of local culture, the arts, education, and sports as a means of enriching the lives of local residents. A fledgling bud in a green leaf signifies the emphasis we place on nature and environmental management. Caring for our planet will ensure future generations can enjoy a cleaner and greener environment. About This Report This report is the eighth sustainability report published by DGB Financial Group. This report covers our past performance record in fulfilling our economic, social and environmental responsibilities and is to be used to enhance stakeholder understanding of DGB Financial Group’s aims regarding sustainability management. This report has been published annually since 2006, with the latest report being published in September 2013. The first four reports, from 2006 to 2009, were published by Daegu Bank. Reporting Period & Scope The reporting period covered herein covers January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, with some additional data covering the first half of 2014 also included. The report covers the activities and performance of DGB Financial Group, Daegu Bank, DGB Capital, U-Payment, DGB Data System, and the Daegu Credit Information. The scope, limit and method of data collection used in this report are the same as those of the previous report. The reporting scope of material issues are separately presented on pages 30 to 31. Sections that have been changed or modified are denoted. Reporting Guidelines The report was prepared in compliance with the “comprehensive” option of the G4 Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), GRI Financial Service Sector Supplement, ISO 26000, and the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. The report also adheres to the IR Framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Economic performance data was collected in accordance with International Accounting Standards, while social and environmental performance data covered in this report was collected using recognized and respected data collection methods. Assurance This report has been independently audited by the Korea Standards Association, an external third party assurance provider, and has been reviewed in accordance with the AA 1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard. The assurance report can be found on pages 168 and 169 of this report. Contents DGB Financial Group Profile CEO’s Message 04 DGB Financial Group Overview 06 Business Models 08 DGB Financial Group Governance Structure 10 DGB Financial Group’s Subsidiaries 15 2013/2014 Highlights 22 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management Reporting Framework 24 DGB Financial Group Stakeholders 26 Materiality Analysis Process & Results 27 Disclosures on Management Approach 30 Summary of Sustainability Management Performance 32 IMPACT AREAS : Zoom-in DGB Protecting Customer Privacy and Information 34 Ethical Management 36 Responsible Finance 38 Optimized Social Contribution for Community 40 CSR STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE Ⅰ. Responsible Management _ Service, Passion and Honesty 44 Customer Satisfaction 45 Employee Satisfaction 47 Win-Win Partnerships 53 Ⅱ. Sustainable Finance _ Sustainable Finance 54 Customer Value Creation 55 Sustainable Performance Creation 59 Ⅲ. Local Community Involvement & Development _ Love & Share 61 Contribution to the Development of Local Economies 62 Sharing with Local Communities 65 Contact Information Ⅳ. Environmental Management _ Green Initiative 68 Green Finance 69 This report is published in both Korean and English and is Addressing Climate Change 71 available on the official websites of DGB Financial Group. Environmental Performance Management 73 Inquires or suggestions can be directed to the following contact points: BOARD OF DIRECTORS 78 FINANCIAL SECTION DGB Financial Group DGB Economic Research Institute Management's Discussion & Analysis 83 Address: 2310 Dalgubeoldaero, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Korea Independent Auditors’ Report 89 Tel: +82-53-740-7971 Fax: +82-53-740-7997 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 90 e-mail: sustainability@dgbfn.com Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 91 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 92 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 93 DGB Financial Group Website Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 95 Daegu Financial Group www.dgbfn.com Daegu Bank www.dgb.co.kr APPENDIX DGB Capital www.dgbfncapital.co.kr DGB Financial Group Awards 167 U-Payment www.ubi-pay.com Third-party Assurance Statement 168 DGB Data System www.dgbds.co.kr GRI G4 INDEX 170 ISO 26000 / UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 174 Daegu Credit Information www.daegucredit.co.kr Survey of Reader's Opinions 175 DGB Financial Group 2013-2014 Sustainability Report Committed to emerging as a regionally-based comprehensive financial group, DGB Financial Group aims to transform itself into a ‘small, but strong and superior comprehensive financial group.’ Led by Daegu Bank—Korea’s first regional bank—the flagship company, DGB Capital, U-Payment, DGB Data System, and Daegu Credit Information are partnering up to attain this goal. DGB Financial Group Profile CEO’s Message Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with local Communities 04 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Dear Valued Stakeholders, Second, we will become a trustworthy financial partner to our customers and society through appropriate management practices. As witnessed in I became the second chairman of DGB Financial Group in March 2014, the recent customer information leakage scandal in the domestic financial a time when the group was entering the third year in operation since its sector, negligence can cause a financial institution to lose the trust of its launch as a financial group with an ambitious plan to become a regionally customers; a lethal blow for a financial institution. Acutely aware of this, based comprehensive financial group. I remain committed to creating a we will go back to basics and review our information security practices in sustainability management system for the group and a brighter future as a order to ensure customer information and financial consumer protection regionally-based leading financial group. practices are air-tight. Furthermore, we will continue to fulfill our social responsibilities through various programs and volunteer activities. In retrospect, the business environment around DGB Financial Group posed many challenges, such as the prolonged low-growth · lowLast, we will put into action our own future-oriented management interest rate trends, fierce competition in the financial industry and practices in order to reinforce long-term growth and competitiveness. stricter regulations in 2013. However, our 4,000 employees were able While strategically seizing new opportunities on our home turf of Daegu to overcome such difficulties by turning risks and changes into growth and Gyeongsangbuk-do to further solidify our position in the region, opportunities. As a result, the group was able to sustain sound growth we will proactively pursue new opportunities in areas including overseas based on stable fundamentals, posting a 0.65 percent return on assets networks, gerontology finance, asset management, and smartphone(ROA), a 8.63 percent return on equity (ROE), and a 1.04 percent nonbased financial services. In order to further diversify our business portfolio, performing loan ratio (NPL Ratio), with total assets reaching KRW 42 we will strengthen our customer service competencies, especially in asset trillion and net income KRW 238.3 billion for 2013. Of particular note management, insurance, and securities, so as to further promote synergy was that we won several international awards in 2013 in recognition of among subsidiaries. our exemplary sustainability management practices. To name a few, we were listed on the 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Asia-Pacific The 2013/2014 Sustainability Report published by DGB Financial Group and DJSI Korea for four and five consecutive years, respectively, as well was compiled in accordance with international standards regarding social as The Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 4Good Index Series for a responsibility (ISO 26000) and GRI G4 Guidelines, transparently disclosing third straight year. Furthermore, we also earned the highest AA grade our fulfillment of the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles. The report in our 2013 Environmental Social and Governance (ESG) Performance reflects the opinions of various stakeholders, including shareholders, Assessment. customers, local communities, partner companies, and employees. Taking the helm of DGB Financial Group, I put forward the management The report contains our commitment to fulfilling our economic, social and philosophy of practical management and set the 2014 vision of becoming environmental responsibilities as a financial group, and is based on our the best partner to our stakeholders. This means that we will strive to determination to communicate with stakeholders regarding our vision, become a leading corporate citizen, one that satisfies the economic goals, key initiatives and activities. Going forward, we will continue to expectations of its customers, shareholders, investors and employees, as listen to our stakeholders and make strenuous efforts to realize our vision well as take the lead in the development of society and environmentallyof sharing our dreams and prosperity with local communities. Throughout conscious local communities. To that end, we have developed the these endeavors, I humbly ask all our stakeholders for your continued following three initiatives. support and encouragement. First, I will practice management by walking about (MBWA) as everything Thank you. that really matters is in the field. Putting customer value before everything CEO of DGB Financial Group else, we will provide the best possible products and services to our Park, In-gyu customers through customer-oriented management approaches, while also developing innovative marketing infrastructure and policies in order to resolve any complaints and better reflect suggestions made by our staff in the field. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 05 DGB Financial Group Profile DGB Financial Group Overview With the aim of writing a new chapter in becoming a regionally-engaged comprehensive financial group, DGB Financial Group was launched in 2011, led by Daegu Bank—Korea’s first regional bank— and consisting of DGB Capital, U-Payment, DGB Data System and Daegu Credit Information. In this fast-changing financial market, everyone at the group is committed to generating a stable source of revenue and growing the group into a premium financial player through synergies between the banking and non-banking subsidiaries. DGB Financial Group’s DGB Financial Group’s Business Performance Results Total Assets Total Assets (Unit: KRW 100 million) 417,425 332,485 378,652 417,425 453,205 KRW 100 million 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Total assets are the sum of the bank’s assets and trusted assets. Return on Assets (ROA) & BIS Ratio Net income on controlling interest (Unit: %) (Unit: KRW 100 million) 3,058 0.97 0.83 0.65 Return on 0.66 Assets (ROA) 2,740 2,600 2,383 Return on 13.95 11.35 8.63 8.41 Equity (ROE) 15.33 15.57 15.06 12.55 BIS Ratio Non-per1.14 1.04 1.04 0.99 forming Loan Ratio Delinquency 0.92 0.70 0.73 0.57 Ratio 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Employees (Unit: persons) 3,963 4,000 3,852 3,738 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) 06 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DGB Financial With the aim of sharing our dreams and prosperity with local communities, DGB Financial Group will implement three management policies: MBWA, which places customer value first by engaging Group Vision in customer-oriented management; rightful management practices that return to basic principles and fulfill social responsibilities; and future-oriented management practices through sales network expansion and business portfolio diversification. In pursuit of becoming a comprehensive premium financial group, DGB Financial Group will reinforce its market power and enhance the financial convenience of local customers. Our mid-term vision is to become a regionally-based comprehensive premium financial group. To that end, we will further strengthen our total financial service competencies while fortifying cross-selling among the group’s subsidiaries so as to realign our revenue and expense structure. In addition, we will continue efforts to diversify our business portfolio in the pursuit of new growth momentum so as to secure new growth engines, while realizing a one-stop total financial service by weaving our subsidiaries’ networks and channels around customer needs. After having focused on substantial growth in 2014, we are now concentrating efforts on increasing management stability through organizational restructuring and enhancing management efficiency through streamlined cost structure and risk management through balanced growth and profitability. Management Principle & Policies Sharing Management Principle Sharing dreams and prosperity with local communities Dreams and Prosperity Vision Becoming the best partner for a brighter future with Local Communities Management Policies On-site Oriented Management Rightful Management Future-oriented Management Customer-oriented Adhering to basic Diversifying business management, principles, fulfilling portfolio, expanding communication and social responsibilities, sales network, raising compassion, management protecting customer brand value by walking about value (MBWA) 2014 Management Goal & Strategies Goal Turning crises into Substantial opportunities! & Growth Strategies Management Efficiency Management Stability Organizational restructuring, Stronger risk management, cost streamlining, balanced growth and profitability management efficiency SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 07 DGB Financial Group Profile Business Models DGB Financial Group’s Sustainable Value Chain DGB Financial Group’s business model is closely linked with the value chain that can Developing Financial Products generate added value from management As part of our commitment to social responsibilities, activities. This value chain spans from DGB Financial Group develops and introduces planning, strategy-building, and financial sustainable financial services and products. Our ultimate goal is to provide a total financial service product development, to the marketing and that reflects customer needs and contributes to sales of financial products. These activities local economies and industries. are closely correlated, thus generating direct and indirect value for DGB Financial Group’s stakeholders. Planning & Strategy-Building We are planning and implementing strategies to provide a community-engaged total financial service that will enhance the financial convenience of customers, inspire hope for local economies and contribute to a happier life for our employees. By discerning risk factors from opportunity factors in a timely manner, we are preemptively responding to the changing business environment, thereby enabling us to effectively relocate resources so as to generate higher value for our stakeholders. Social Contribution DGB Financial Group returns the economic value it has earned from business activities in the form of job creation, cultural and education sponsorships, and reinvestment in local communities. 08 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Marketing Activities DGB Financial Group provides financial products and services, and information on them, via numerous diverse channels. In doing this, we ensure that facts are provided to customers in an appropriate and fair manner through fair marketing practices. Financial Service and Product Sales DGB Financial Group offers a variety of financial services and products via a number of distribution channels, including nationwide branch offices, ATMs, and mobile-based/ Internet-based banking services. Our employees strive to provide products that cater to customer needs and risk appetites in order to ensure that they can benefit from our financial services. Risk Management DGB Financial Group systematically manages and monitors credit, interest rate, operation, liquidity and market risks, striking the right balance between risk and profit in order to achieve sustainable growth. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 09 DGB Financial Group Profile DGB Financial Group Governance Structure Sound As of the end of June 2014, the largest shareholder of DGB Financial Group was Samsung Life Insurance, with a 7.25 percent share of the company, while the largest overseas shareholder was Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency with 6.41 Corporate percent. Governance Ownership Structure As of the end of June 2014 Korean shareholders 24.49 % Largest Shareholder – Samsung Life Insurance – 7.25 % Foreign shareholders 75.51 % Largest overseas shareholder – Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency – 6.41 % Ownership of Subsidiaries and Affiliates DGB 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Financial Daegu Bank DGB Capital U-Payment DGB Data System Daegu Credit Group Insurance Board of The board of directors (BOD) at DGB Financial Group consists of two standing and five outside directors, and is chaired by the CEO. In order to independently monitor and advise on management activities and conform with Directors regulations, outside directors make up the majority of BOD members. Outside directors are appointed at a general shareholders’ meeting following recommendations by the Outside Director Nomination Committee. DGB Financial Group BOD Profile Type Name Gender Age Term Duties Remarks Park, Male 60 3yrs •Chairman of the Board Chairman of DGB Financial Group Standing In-gyu •Chair of Outside Director Nomination Committee CEO of Daegu Bank Director Park, Male 61 •Member of Risk Management Committee Vice President of DGB Financial Group Dong-gowan Lee, Male 72 1yr •Senior Outside Director Former Dean of Business at Kyungbuk National Jeong-do •Chair of Management Development & Compensation University Committee Professor emeritus, Kyungbuk National •Chair of Audit Committee University •Chair of Outside Director Nomination Committee Cho, Male 71 2yrs •Member of Management Development & Former Mayor of Daegu City Hae-nyoung Compensation Committee President of the Community Chest of Daegu •Chair of Risk Management Committee •Member of Auditor Nomination Committee Kim, Male 70 2yrs •Member of Management Development & Former President of LG Electronics Ssang-su Compensation Committee Former President of Korea Electric Power Outside •Member of Audit Committee Corporation Director •Member of Outside Director Nomination Committee •Member of Auditor Nomination Committee Chang, Male 57 1yr •Member of Management Development & Former President of Daegu District Bar Ik-hyun Compensation Committee Association •Member of Audit Committee Attorney at Chang Ik-hyun Law Office •Member of Outside Director Nomination Committee •Member of Auditor Nomination Committee Lee, Male 52 1yr •Member of Management Development & Senior Researcher, Korea Institute of Finance Ji-eun Compensation Committee •Member of Risk Management Committee •Member of Auditor Nomination Committee As of the end of March 2014 10 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Director Appointment Process At DGB Financial Group, only those who meet the requirements stipulated in governing laws—Financial Holding Companies Act, Commercial Law and the DGB Financial Group’s Articles of Incorporation— are elected to director positions. Candidates must also abide by criteria dictated in the Outside Directors Guidelines. Including the Chairman of the board, nearly all members of the Outside Director Nomination Committee are outside directors, thus helping to guarantee independence and transparency when electing new directors. Director Nomination Process Position Details Candidate(s) nominated by the Chairman Candidate Nomination Committee, comprised of one representative shareholder and Chairman five outside directors Standing director(s) Candidate(s) nominated by the Board of Directors Outside director(s) Candidate(s) nominated by the Outside Director Nomination Committee, comprised of one standing and two outside directors Board of Directors Operating The Board of Directors approves and monitors the implementation of the Group’s management strategies and policies, as BOD's Attendance Rate well as overseeing the internal control system so as to guarantee management stability across the entire group. The chairman in 2013 of the board can convene regular and ad-hoc BOD meetings in order to resolve issues through majority voting, unless otherwise stipulated in the bylaws. Under the BOD are four subcommittees—Management Development & Compensation Committee, Risk Management Committee, Audit Committee and Outside Director Nomination Committee—each of which are comprised of experts in management and law. All of these committees are operated transparently and independently. Committee Members Functions Management Development & Five outside directors Approval of each committee’s operational plans and evaluation of performance Compensation Committee Two outside directors Monitoring and checking the appropriateness of risk management for the soundness and 100% Risk Management Committee Audit Committee One standing director Three outside directors stability of management activities Developing and implementing audit plans and reviewing results with follow-ups and improvement suggestions Chairman Outside Director Nomination Committee Nominating candidates for outside director positions Two outside directors Auditor Nomination Committee Five outside directors Nominating candidates for audit committee member positions BOD Operational Results Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of BOD meetings 5 10 12 10 Percentage of outside directors to total BOD members 83.3 83.3 83.3 71.4 Participation rate (%) 88 95 100 100 Major BOD Agenda in 2013 No. of outside directors Meeting Date Agenda attended (total) Approval of nine agenda, including Second Term Financial Statements and Notes, Business 1 Feb. 6, 2013 5(5) Reports, Consolidated Financial Statements nd 2 Feb. 20, 2013 Approval of six agenda, including the 2 Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting (proposal) 5(5) 3 Mar. 22, 2013 Approval of two agenda, including the election of new chairman of the board 5(5) 4 Mar. 22, 2013 Approval of four agenda, including the Group’s bond issuance and contribution to subsidiaries 5(5) 5 Apr. 25, 2013 Report on the participation in the bidding for Yesol Savings Bank 5(5) 6 May 9, 2013 Approval of four agenda, including the extension of borrowing period for working capital 5(5) 7 Aug. 2, 2013 Approval of five agenda, including the agreement for consulting services 5(5) 8 Sep. 16, 2013 Submission of preliminary bid proposals for regional bank and pledge 5(5) Approval of four agenda, including the agreement between the holding company and 9 Oct. 29, 2013 5(5) subsidiary for establishing a computer system 10 Dec. 16, 2013 Report on the plan for participation in the privatization of regional bank 5(5) 11 Dec. 20, 2013 Approval of six agenda, including the 2014 DGB Financial Group Business Plan 5(5) 12 Dec. 26, 2013 Approval of agenda regarding appointment of new compliance officer 5(5) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 11 Director Remuneration Compensation to directors is made in the form of a basic salary and profit sharing (short-term incentives, longterm performance cash) within the limits approved at the general shareholders’ meeting. Short-term incentives are determined by BOD meetings based on management performance evaluation and the resultant compensation guidelines, while long-term performance cash is paid in a fixed amount based on long-term evaluation of management performance and directors’ service terms. Remuneration to the concurrent post-holder (chairman) is first paid by his/ her original company, with the remaining being settled after they have left the post according to the percentage of duty performance. In 2013, the highest amount of remuneration paid to a single person was 9.8 times higher than the median of payments made to the entire workforce. Annual remuneration was down by three percent from 2012. Remuneration to Board of Directors (as of 2013) Total Mean of No. of Remuneration Remuneration Paid Type Remarks Directors Paid Per Person (KRW in millions) (KRW in millions) Including the concurrent Standing Directors 2 282 141 post-holder (chairman) Members of Risk 2 66 33 Outside Management Committee Directors Auditor/Members of Audit 3 82 27 Committee Total 7 430 61 DGB Financial Group Organization Chart (3 Divisions, 1 Institue, 9 Departments) Management Development & General Meeting of Compensation Committee Shareholders Risk Management Committee Board of Directors Outside Director Nomination Committee Auditor Nomination CEO & Chairman Committee Audit's Committee Management Council Secretariat Executive Committee Compliance Vice President Vice President Vice President Officer Strategic DGB Economic Risk Synergy Management Research Management Division Division Institute Division •Strategic Planning •Synergy Promotion •Risk Management •Audit Department •Compliance Department Department Department Department •Business Manage•Social Contribution ment Department Department •Public Relations Department 12 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Sustainability DGB Financial Group established the Sustainability Management Committee for better Group-wide integrated sustainability management practices. The Committee is in charge of monitoring companyManagement wide sustainability management activities, evaluating performance and providing feedback. Committee Under the Committee is the Sustainability Working Council, which develops sustainability strategies and implements action plans through four sub-councils. Each sub-council convenes at least twice a year to evaluate risks and opportunities arising from economic, environmental and social issues and their impact on the Group’s business, while also developing and upgrading the Group’s objectives, values, policies and goals. Any material issues related to Group-wide sustainability management practices or sustainability reporting are reviewed by the chair of the council (Director of the DGB Economic Research Institute), before being submitted to the Sustainability Management Committee for approval. Sustainability Management Framework Daegu Bank Sustainability DGB Capital Management Sustainability Working Council Management Chair: Management Director U-Payment Committee of Holding Company (Director of DGB Economic Research (Chair: Group Chairman) Institute) Working Group: Green DGB Data System Finance Group Daegu Credit Information CSR Commitment to External Voluntary Agreements Financial Initiatives INITIATIVE UN Global Compact DJSI(Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) •Chairman of DGB Financial Group is a director of the UNGC Korea •Enlisted to the DJSI Asia-Pacific for the 4th consecutive year •Submitted the Communication On Progress •Enlisted to the DJSI Korea for the 5th consecutive year •Sold funds of DJSI Korea members CEO Water Mandate •Reported on water resource management practices, including rainwater recycling Selected as an Excellent performer in addressing climate change by CDP Korea •Reinforcing initiatives to address climate change through carbon disclosure •Named an ‘Excellent Performer’ for the 4th consecutive year UNEP Financial Initiative since 2009 •Participated in regular UNEP FI Korean Group meetings •Acted as a member of the Green Economy Initiative Carbon Disclosure Project FTSE4Good Indexes •Annual signatory since 2007 •Enlisted on the FTSE4Good Korea Index for the 3rd consecutive year since 2011 Climate Disclosure Standard Board •Member of the CDSB Korean Working Group in 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 13 Risk DGB Financial Group classifies risks that can arise in the due course of business activities into five categories: credit, interest rate, operation, liquidity and market, and strives to keep all of these in Management control. Risk Management Philosophy DGB Financial Group’s risk management philosophy is to balance risk and profit in all business activities in order to achieve sustainable growth within the Group’s risk appetite. Risk Management Principle In accordance with the Group’s risk management principles, the holding company’s supervisory authority performs checks and balances with the individual subsidiaries’ risk management functions. Market Risk Risk Management Committee Operational Interest rate Risk Risk Risk Risk Management Council Management Liquidity Credit Chief Risk Officer Risk Risk 2013 Risk Management Committee Activities •Election of Chair of the Committee •Review of proposal to change Group-level risk •Report on Group-wide risk management practices appetite for FY 2013 •Report on Group’s BIS ratio •Review of proposal to set Group-level risk appetite •Report on the implementation of Risk for FY 2014 No. of Risk Management Management Committee resolutions •Deliberation of proposal for DGB Financial Group’s Meetings in 2013 •Report on resolutions/deliberations of Risk 2014 business plan Management Council •Report on Group-wide integrated stress test results •Report on subsidiaries’ risk management •Report on subsidiaries’ risk management committee meetings committee meetings Risk Management Committee Meetings 6 meetings Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of Risk Management Committee meetings 5 9 6 6 14 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DGB Financial Group Profile DGB Financial Group’s Subsidiaries Daegu Bank Established in 1967, Daegu Bank was Korea’s first regional bank. For the past 46 years, the bank has contributed to the development of the local economy. Daegu Bank Vision A World-Class Management Principle Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with Local Communities Regional Bank that Embraces Vision A world-class regional bank that embraces sustainability management Slogan: “Happy Finance for a Better Future, OK DGB” Sustainability Management Management Customer-oriented Trustful Finance Go-together Finance Policies Finance We pursue a better future through customer-oriented, trustworthy business activities and sharing profits with our stakeholders. Choose Trust-based Five Key & Focus On-site Practical Management relationship that oriented efficiency that Initiatives strategy for organizational shares growth to marketing embraces new growth restructuring ensure a better innovation change engines future Daegu Bank Core Values Serving Everyone A compassionate company that serves its customers and local communities, and strives for mutual communication with DGB employees Core Values Passion for Change A dynamic corporate culture that creates new value through creative thinking and promotes a sense of ownership Honesty for Ourselves A respected company that builds lasting trust based on integrity and ethics, and Serving Passion for Honesty for which sets examples for customers, local Everyone Change Ourselves communities, and the financial sector SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 15 No. of DGB Branches Daegu Bank’s Branch Network As of March 2014 Seoul 3 Gyeongbuk 15 252 Gimcheon Gumi 2 14 Pohang 19 Daegu Gyeongju 174 Gyeongsan No. of CDs/ATMs 4 12 Ulsan BANK 2 •Branch network: 251 in Korea and 1 overseas Changwon (Shanghai Branch) 1 Busan •No. of CDs/ATMs: 2,571 units 5 •Cyber branches: Five (Dok-do, Gyeongju, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Corporation, Innovation City, and Green branches) •No. of Employees: 2,973 employees 2,571units Daegu Bank Organization Chart No. of DGB Cyber Branches Two Groups and Eight Divisions General Shareholders’ Meeting Management Development & Compensation Committee Board of Directors Risk Management Committee Audit Committee 5 CEO Standing Auditor Executive Committee Audit Department Marketing Management Group Group Customer Strategy Management Planning Risk Management Division Division Division Secretariat Trust Department Customer Sales Market Business Division Division Chief Customer Public Finance Division Sales Support Division Compliance Officer (CCO) Financial Chief Information Officer Consumer Protection Security officer Compliance Financial Consumer Information Security Synergy Sales Group IT Division Protection Department Department Department Change & Innovation Regional Division Group 16 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Financial Highlights Total Assets (Unit: KRW 100 millions) 425,972 410,856 375,336 332,438 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Net Income on Controlling Interest (Unit: KRW 100 millions) 3,099 2,801 2,750 2,489 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Return on Assets (ROA) & BIS Ratio Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: %) (Unit: KRW in millions) 0.98 246,274 253,965 259,905 0.86 Wages & Return on Assets 0.69 0.65 welfare (ROA) Expenses 56,814 62,098 54,436 14.21 11.81 Dividends Return on Equity 9.17 8.90 (ROE) 726,695 772,724 716,220 Interest 14.18 14.62 Expenses BIS Ratio (Basel II) 108,686 87,542 Taxes 82,079 15.21 13.00 15,751 BIS Ratio 12,723 10,029 (Basel III) Donations 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 (plan) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 17 DGB Capital DGB Capital is a financial company specialized in lease, installment finance, and loans, serving under banked SMEs and the working class. Specifically, we lease and offer installment finance on industrial machinery, such as machining tools, construction equipment, printing machinery, and injectors, as well as providing investment banking services, such as facility loans, working capital loans and factoring. For individual borrowers, the company offers personal credit loans, mortgage loans and chonsei loans. Despite lingering uncertainties in the domestic and international financial markets, DGB Capital has been consistently expanding its communication channels with customers, while at the same time fulfilling its social responsibilities under the belief that our growth is based on our customers’ prosperity. Furthermore, the company continues to practice low-cost, highefficient management based on the ‘choose and focus’ strategy, while paying attention to market developments through consistent market analysis and identifying niche markets. As such, DGB capital aims to grow into a premium loan-specialized financial company, one that strategically balances its growth and profit with financial stability, and thus solidifying its position as a mainstay of the group. Introduction Since its incorporation into DGB Financial Group in January 2012, DGB Capital has achieved remarkable growth. In 2014, the company set goals at KRW 1 trillion in operating assets and KRW 13 billion in net income with the aim of becoming a major capital company. To this end, DGB Capital is expanding its business platform and continuing with system innovation, while diversifying its product portfolio through various new product R&D activities. By harnessing the group’s synergies, the company is proud to take a pivotal role in strengthening the Group’s quality assets while serving the different financial needs of customers. Coupled with this asset growth strategy, the company is strategically dispersing risk through policies such as small-amount, multi-account dispersion, appropriate portfolios by business type and financial product, and good credit performer-oriented loans. Moving forward, the company will continue to strive to become a respected company trusted by its stakeholders through stable asset growth, thorough risk management and profit maximization policies. CEO Park, Chang-ho Corporate Overview Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW in millions) Wages & welfare CEO Park, Chang-ho Donations Expenses Establishment September 14, 2009 3,906 1.9 Headquarters 18F, 39 Eonju-ro 30-gil, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Taxes Business Region Nationwide 2,671 Shareholders DGB Financial Group 100% Workforce 81 employees (4 executives and 77 employees) Interest expenses Revenue KRW 41.0 billion 16,685 As of the end of December 2013 Sustainability Management Performance On-site Oriented Management Social Contribution Activities The CEO of DGB Capital translates his MBWA policy into Amid decreasing social contribution activities nationwide as action in order to listen to the voices of customers. He visits a result of the prolonged economic slowdown, DGB Capiclients according to business type, size, region and customer tal has continued all of its social contribution and volunteer class once/twice a week. This policy has received good reactivities. In addition to regular volunteer activities through views from customers, with many claiming such visits help the DGB Financial Group Volunteer Corps, the company has close the gap between the company and customers, thus introduced various ideas in order to facilitate employee soeliminating any misconceptions about the company being cial contribution activities, such as a donation program run conservative and financially rigid in structure. Furthermore, in conjunction with the company’s Cafeteria Program. In adthe company arranges numerous brainstorming sessions dition, all employees participate in the ‘Employees’ 1 percent and opportunities for in-depth discussions regarding market of Wage Sharing Campaign”, which helps to raise funds for developments, thus further promoting mutual growth and the DGB Social Contribution Foundation. strengthening ties. 18 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP U-Payment U-Payment provides electronic payment solutions, including public transportation card services, micro-payment transactions, and security checkpoint systems. Since joining the group in 2011, the company has introduced various new services, including the launch of a ‘One-Pass’ card that is compatible with all transportation nationwide, and a deferred payment traffic card service. As a member of DGB Financial Group, U-Payment will grow into a respected corporate citizen, one that gives back to society under the Group’s management philosophy of “sharing our dreams and prosperity with local communities. Introduction Everyone at U-Payment reaffirmed their commitment to the company’s stable Micro-payment growth with passion and an enterprising transactions spirit, setting the management goal for Transportation M •Sports (baseball, soccer) card service on •Movie theaters 2014 as “2014: the starting point for a Trans ent aym •Government offices por •Bus o-p jump for a better future.” In line with this (official document fees) tat •Urban Subway i icr (Daegu Subway Line •Cafeterias goal, the company devised three key iniNo. 1 and 2) •Vending machines •Payphones tiatives: maximizing profitability, reinforc•Taxi •Toll Roads •Convenience stores and ing corporate competitiveness, and se•Parking Lots other stores curing future growth engines. Ultimately, the company aims to focus on mass Security transportation services, miro-payment transactions, electronic ticketing service, Security checkpoint system and electronic government with the aim •Apartment security card of becoming a leader in the 21st century’s •School attendance recorders ubiquitous era. CEO Lee, Chun-ki Corporate overview Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW in millions) Wages & welfare CEO Lee, Chun-ki Donations Expenses Establishment December 29, 1999 (former Kardnet) 1,502 20 2503 Dalgubeol-daero (9F, Beomeo-dong), SuseongHeadquarters gu, Daegu, Korea Interest Expenses 621 Daegu, Gyeongsan, Yeongcheon, and part of GyeongBusiness Region sangbuk-do and Seoul Metropolitan Area Shareholders DGB Financial Group 100% Workforce 32 employees Revenue KRW 12,028 million As of the end of December 2013 Sustainability Management Performance Launch of Mobile One-Pass Card Social Contribution Activities U-Payment launched a mobile prepaid card (mobile OneCommitted to its corporate social responsibilities, U-PayPass) to provide customers with a more convenient payment ment engages in a number of social contribution programs, service. This new service allows passengers to pay mass including providing scholarships to families in the transportransportation fares, including buses, taxies, subways and tation industry, offering transportation subsidies to lowtoll roads, using just their mobile phones. Furthermore, the income families, and donating to SOS Children’s Villages company launched a ‘Taxi Safe Home’ mobile app service, Korea. enabling customers to get home safe and sound. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 19 DGB Data System DGB Data System’s primary focus is on information system development and integrated IT operations, with the aim of targeting affiliated companies and SMEs operating in the Daegu and Gyeongsang regions. Under the slogan “Leading the way with passion and creative thinking,” DGB Data System employees IT specialists and constantly upgrades its internal process so as to be better positioned to offer leading IT services. Under this shared goal, everyone at DGB Data System strives to further expand the company’s business domain. In line with the Group’s management philosophy “Sharing our dreams and prosperity with local communities,” DGB Data System also pursues technology-oriented strategic partnerships with local SMEs, providing them with quality control and technical support, thus contributing to synergies within the regional IT industry through joint R&D projects. Introduction Founded in April 2012, DGB Data System is an IT service provider specializing in information system development, integrated IT operations, IT consulting and IT education. Committed to the development of the local IT industry through synergies with group affiliates, the company contributes its extensive know-how in IT services to the development of its customers. DGB Data System also provides optimized solutions for corporate clients’ system needs based on its professional human resources and expertise in the IT finance sector. In the future, we will continue to contribute to the higher competitiveness and corporate value of our customers by providing excellent IT services, while further strengthening our future competitiveness and foundation for sustainable growth through partnerships and joint R&D projects with local governments. CEO Jung, Young-man Corporate Overview Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW in millions) CEO Jung, Young-man Wages & welfare Donations Expenses Establishment April 9, 2012 0.3 1,074 Headquarters 118, Suseong-dong 2-ga, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Korea Taxes Business Region Nationwide 85 Shareholders DGB Financial Group 100% Workforce 45 employees Revenue KRW 2,236 million As of the end of December 2013 Sustainability Management Performance Regional SME Support Activities Social Contribution Activities Leveraging its excellent workforce and IT systems, DGB Data DGB Data System launched its own volunteer corps in May System has established and continues to open various sup2013 in order to systematically organize social contribution port systems for local SMEs. Based on an alliance with DGB activities. All Group affiliates participated in the Habitat for Business Consulting Center, the company has completed Humanity event; providing Samgyetang (chicken soup) to a performance evaluation system for regional SMEs and is local underprivileged residents during the hottest period of now developing a human resource evaluation system, ERP summer. In the run-up to Chuseok (Korean Thanksgiving system, groupware, and treasury settlement system. By utiDay) volunteer corps delivered donations to the Beommul lizing its advanced IT competitiveness, the company is inSocial Welfare Center, as well as Chuseok gifts to those in creasing its support of group affiliates as well as contributing need. In 2014, the corps helped relocated and furnish the to the development of the regional IT industry. office of the Daegu SOS Children’s Village. The company will continue to fulfill its social responsibilities through a number of social contribution programs. 20 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Daegu Credit Established on July 5, 2000, Daegu Credit Information is a specialized bond collection service provider auInformation thorized by the Financial Supervisory Service, and became a member of DGB Financial Group in May 2011. Beginning 2014, the market environment poses challenges to the company with banks’ belt-tightening policies and the contracting market size of the bond collection service following enforcement of the IFRS, which resulted in a drop in bond collection practices. In response, the company strives to maintain its sales revenue by expanding into rental market research, complaint agency, and asset inspection services. At the same time, the company is training experts in pursuit of new growth engines under revised related regulations, such as the Credit Information Act which allows bond collection service providers to buy non-performing loans, and the State Credit Management Act that allows bond collection service providers to be entrusted with delinquent state credit management. Introduction Daegu Credit Information is a specialized company in bold collection services. Its primary services include the recovery of non-performing loans, commercial and civil obligations, credit research and a civil affairs handling service. Since its foundation, the company has grown from KRW 1.5 billion of equity capital to a total asset size of KRW 4.5 billion thanks to its staying in the black for 14 consecutive years. In 2014, the company will proactively prepare for stricter regulations regarding the bond collection service industry and stronger financial consumer rights protection by diversifying its business portfolio into rental market research and civil affairs, while moving to recover deferred state bonds as quickly as possible. CEO Son, Soon-ho Corporate Overview Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW in millions) CEO Son, Soon-ho Wages & welfare Donations Expenses Establishment July 5, 2000 1 490 Headquarters (4F, Daegu Bank North Bisan Branch) 183, Dalseo-ro, Taxes Seo-gu, Daegu, Korea 54 Business Region Nationwide Shareholders DGB Financial Group 100% Workforce 60 employees Revenue KRW 2,007 million As of the end of December 2013 Sustainability Management Performance Social Contribution Activities Daegu Credit Information is involved in a number of social contribution activities for local communities. In 2013, 20 of its employees provided assistance to local farmers and arranging parties for local elderly citizens. In January 2014, the company cleaned up trails on a local mountain as part of its environmental protection campaign after the New Year’s Rally. Company volunteers also participated in the DGB Emergency Aid Volunteer Corps which aims to serve local communities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 21 DGB Financial Group Profile 2013/2014 Highlights Sep. 2, 2013 DGB commenced foreign exchange and overseas remittance services at ‘Global F/X ATM’ DGB have introduced ATMs that allow customers to change Korean Won into US Dollars using their debit cards, and bankbooks, as well as overseas remittance. These new machines also feature the Chinese Yuan; a first among Korean financial institutions. Customers are also able to change currencies using debits cards from other banks. Sep. 12, 2013 DGB Financial Group’s Women Association Receives Minister’s Prize at Happy Sharing Awards DGB Financial Group’s Women Association won the Welfare Minister’s Prize in the Talent Donation/Volunteerism category at the 3rd Happy Sharing Awards organized by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Sharing Korea Network on September 12, 2013. Launched in 1975, the Association has conducted monthly volunteer activities a local welfare centers and donated scholarships totaling KRW 20 million every year for the past four decades. Oct. 7, 2013 Opening ‘DGB Bluebird Multi-Culture Welfare Center’ In order to diversify its social contribution programs and expand the CSR base, DGB Contribution Foundation opened the DGB Bluebird Multi-Culture Welfare Center in 2013 on its own foundation day, October, 7. The new center will add language programs and psychological therapy to its programs so as to provide much needed assistance to recently married immigrants in an attempt to help them better adapt to a new culture and society. Nov. 15, 2013 Participation in the Korea Climate & Environment Convention DGB Financial Group participated in the 2013 Green Start National Convention, co-organized by the Ministry of Environment and the Korea Climate & Environment Network, operating a pavilion and conducting events designed to promote its environmental campaigns. Nov. 27, 2013 Strategic alliance for the development of the local economy and local communities Daegu Bank concluded a strategic business alliance with the Korea Appraisal Board (KAB) for the development of the local economy and local communities on November 27, 2013. The agreement was part of a shared goal to contribute to the development of the local economy between regional financial institutions and state-run corporations preparing to move into the Shinseo Innovation City of Daegu. The agreement calls for bilateral collaboration in common interest initiatives, such as the promotion of financial transactions focused on the mutual growth and advancement of the regional real estate market and joint projects regarding corporate social responsibilities. 22 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Nov. 28, 2013 DGB was Selected as an Excellent Performer of Anti-Money Laundry Practices Daegu Bank was officially commended by the Prime Minister as an excellent performer of money laundry prevention at the 7th Money Laundry Prevention Day held by the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) of the Financial Services Commission (FSC). Daegu Bank earned the high score for its contribution to the FIU’s money laundry prevention practices through its advanced money laundry prevention system, process innovation and risk analysis model, systematic training programs designed to raise employee awareness, and external programs designed to raise public awareness. Mar. 21, 2014 Park, In-gyu was appointed as Second Chairman of DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group held the annual general shareholders’ meeting and board of directors meeting to appoint former vice president of Daegu Bank, Park In-kyu, as the 2nd Chairman of DGB Financial Group and the 11th president of Daegu Bank on March 21, 2014. In his inauguration speech, Chairman Park presented “On-site oriented management and Practical management” as his management philosophy, as well as a management vision of “Best Partner for the Future,” while also announcing a management policy focusing on customer-oriented management, rightful management and future-oriented management practices. Apr. 15, 2014 DGB Embarks on IT System Upgrading Project Daegu Bank established a Marketing Innovation Team for differentiated marketing activities based on the big-data model, and which has since commenced the 17 month-long IT System Upgrading project that involves preparatory maintenance of required data, marketing & CRM strategic initiatives, and an upgraded IT system, as well as the development of a roadmap for bank-wide marketing competence-building. Apr. 24, 2014 DGB, First Earn Top Grade in Financial Company Civil Complaint Assessment Ratings for 8th Straight Year Daegu Bank earned the top grade in the banking sector at the 2013 Financial Company Civil Complaint Assessment Rating by the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) on April 24, 2014. The bank became the first Korean financial institution to be rated 1st grade for eight consecutive years; proving its excellent performance in protecting consumer rights. Apr. 8, 2014 DGB Financial Group Publishes Mongolian Anti-Desertification Forest Project Whitepaper As part of its global CSR activities, DGB Financial Group published the DGB Mongolian Anti-Desertification Forest Project Whitepaper, in which it revealed its success in combating desertification in Mongolia between 2009 and 2013. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 23 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management Reporting Framework Responsible Sustainable Management Finance CSR Strategic Direction Ⅰ + Ⅱ + Ⅲ •Customer Satisfaction (p.45~46) •Customer Value Creation (p.55~58) •Employee Satisfaction (p.47~52) – Small-loan Finance (p.55~56) •Win-Win Partnerships (p.53) – Socially Responsible Finance (p.56~58) •Sustainable Performance Creation (p.59~60) External / Value Creation Internal / Value Creation •Providing customer satisfaction activities and •Intensifying competition in the financial industry products/services •Divergence and conglomeration of finance •Increasing the number of consumers with •Increasing product & service liabilities serious views on health, eco-friendliness and •Environmental impact of products and services social values •Increasing socially responsible investment practices •Increasingly diversifying customer demands •Growing youth unemployment and non-regular jobs •Growing needs for collecting corporate •Declining birthrates and diminishing population information •Increasingly aging society Ⅰ. Trend / Impact •Protecting consumer rights in advertisement/ promotion (fair advertisement) •Protecting customer privacy and information •Safe financial transactions (preventing personal information leakage) •Establishing active relationships for •Providing and improving financial transaction processes organizational development, customer and financial product services protection and the benefit of suppliers •Intellectual properties, including financial product Ⅱ. Resource & •Tangible assets for business activities (sales patent rights, copyrights, computer systems, etc. Capability branches, ATMs, and online banking, etc.) •Ability to comprehend and implement human rights, the value of business ethics and the organization’s strategies Management Management Principles Policies Ⅲ. Management ▶Sharing dreams and ▶On-site oriented Philosophy & Policy prosperity with local management communities ▶Rightful management ▶Future-oriented management 24 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Local Community Environmental Involvement & Development Management •Contribution to the Development of •Green Finance (p.69~70) Local Economies (p.62~64) •Addressing Climate Change (p.71~72) •Sharing with Local Communities •Environmental Performance (p.65~67) Management (p.73~77) Internal / Risk Management External / Risk Management •Protecting minor shareholders’ rights •Increasing importance of partner companies’ rights •Creation and distribution of economic performance and roles •Corporate credibility •Commitment to the development of the local •Increasing demand for transparency economy •Anti-corruption •Contribution to the development of local •Anti-discrimination education and culture •Fair and adequate consideration for the quality of •Generation of local wealth and income (utilization working conditions (employee turnover rate) of local workers and products) •Growing importance of employees’ rights and roles •Investment and support for local development •Human resources development and on-the-job training projects (training hours and life-long learning programs for •Promotion of socially responsible activities employees) •Efforts to improve local healthcare •Increasing globalization and mutual relevance •Efforts to mitigate climate change (reduction of energy consumption and utilization of renewable energy) Material Issue Storyline for •Maintaining relationships with key stakeholders, •Social value recognition and awareness-raising Compiling the Report including local communities activities •Intangible assets related to corporate reputation and Recognition of Core Issues brand value •Recognition of the external/internal impact of issues as well as their significance •Explanation of DGB Financial Group’s selections regarding key issues and their significance Strategies and Implementation Framework for Each Issue •Basic approach on activities related to each issue •Framework for implementing each activity Quantitative Performance Results and Activity Management Management Programs Goal Strategies •Description of activities performed for each issue •Targets and progress results for each issue expressed in ▶Turning Crises into ▶Enhancing Management quantitative terms Opportunities! Efficiency Substantial Growth ▶Enhancing Management Future Agenda Stability •Stakeholders’ perspective of viewing DGB Financial Group’s issues •Feedback on the voices of stakeholders •Reflecting on 2014 business plans SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 25 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Management System DGB Financial Group Stakeholders Stakeholder Group Mapping Stakeholder Grouping Those to whom the Group has legal, financial and operational responsibilities Core Key stakeholders •Government and •Business Partners Relevant Organizations •Labor Unions Strategic •Employees Strategic stakeholders Shareholders & Investors •NGOs and •Non-regular workers interest groups •NPOs •Media •Customers •Other financial •Competitors •Local communities institutions Environmental (peer group) Other stakeholders Those who have Those who are influence on the influenced by the performance of the operation of the Group Group Communication Channels for Stakeholders ● Intranet Help Page, Makeover Page Letters for Hope from employees ● DGB Financial Group affiliates’ websites ● Employee satisfaction surveys DGB’s social contribution ● Labor-management council ● Daegu Bank’s corporate citizenship report meetings and conferences ● DGB Volunteer Corps ● Love Your Hometown Campaign ● DGB University Student Green Press Corps ● DGB Financial Group affiliates’ websites ● CEO Forums (Daegu, Gumi, Pohang and Gimcheon) ● Meetings with honorary branch ● DGB Financial Group affiliates’ managers websites ● Meetings with the CEOs from Internet civil petitions outstanding SME customers Financial incidents ● Business consulting services Report on irregular financial activities ● Meetings with business partners ● DGB Financial Group Website (DGB IR page) ● General Shareholders’ Meeting ● Board of Directors Meeting ● IR activities Corporate presentations Conference calls 26 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DGB Financial Group Sustainability Management System Materiality Analysis Process & Results Material management issues requiring our attention were identified through materiality test procedures recommended by the ISO 26000, GRI G4 Guidelines and IIRC. The report content was structured based on selected material issues, with particular focus on issues of high concern to our stakeholders and those with a high impact on the Group’s business activities. Materiality Analysis Process STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Apprehension Prioritization Verification Internal and external environmental Sustainability Context Materiality Completeness analysis and materiality analysis were •Benchmarking •Materiality analysis •Verifying the appropriateness of conducted on selected sustainability •Media analysis •Relevance test reporting scope, boundaries and issues based on the four principles •In-depth interviews with •Significance test period stakeholders of sustainability context, materiality, •Assessment of ISO 26000 completeness and stakeholder compliance inclusiveness. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Stakeholder qualitative & quantitative surveys Personal Institutional Government & Employees customers customers Subsidiaries local governments Internal stakeholders Report 736(59.55%) 188(37.60%) 129(25.80%) 34(6.80%) 30(6.00%) 736(59.55%) University & Non-regular Non-profit Local residents Business Partners Research Institutes workers / Interns organizations External stakeholders 56(11.20%) 8(1.60%) 14(2.80%) 21(4.20%) 20(4.00%) 500(40.45%) STEP 4 Review Sustainability Context Stakeholder Inclusiveness STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 Identification of sustainability Materiality analysis in order to Verification Review management issues through internal prioritize key sustainability issues / external environmental analysis Benchmarking | By categorizing the Materiality analysis has been conducted in two DGB Financial Group’s Sustainability Stakeholders’ feedback on the 2012-2013 sustainability reports published by domestic and phases: relevance test and significance test. The Management Working Council conducted Sustainability Report and external agency’s ESG international financial companies into 8 groups relevance test involves assessing the relevance of a TFT workshop to verify the significance of test recommendation are reflected in this report. (strategy, governance, economy, environment, issues identified from in-depth interviews with the selected 32 key issues, as well as develop labor, human rights, society, and product), we six representative stakeholders and those issues reporting plans and outline reporting levels on identified major issues of high significance to generated from internal/external environmental key issues, such as scope, boundary and period. peer companies. analysis and narrowing these down to 60 issues. Media Analysis | Material issues have been As part of the materiality analysis, we ran online identified by analyzing 4,891 valid articles surveys on 1,236 Group stakeholders for eight published between 2011 and 2013 in order to days in March 2014, before then placing 32 key analyze the public recognition of the Group. issues in order of significance. Assessment of ISO 2600 Compliance | The Group’s sustainability management practices were assessed against ISO 26000 criteria, with bad performances included in the report. Stakeholder In-Depth Interviews | In order to work out the details of the Group’s sustainability issues, six representatives were selected from five key stakeholder groups—customers (consumer financing and corporate banking), business partners, local communities, knowledge workers and NGOs—for in-depth interviews. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 27 Materiality Analysis Results For this year’s report, we selected 30 issues that scored an average of 3.74 points or higher through the materiality analysis and added Supply Chain CSR Management and Environmental Management. In particular, four issues were of the highest concern to our employees and stakeholders for the 2013/2014 report: ‘customer personal information protection,’ ‘ethical management,’ ‘responsible finance,’ and ‘community engagement programs.’ These four issues were designated as key issues for this report and are looked at in the Impact Areas section. DGB Financial Group Material Issues High▶ 1 Enhancing IT security and preventing financial transaction incidents 2 Protecting customer Stakeholder Concerns personal information 3 Increasing demand for corporate transparency (business ethics) Social contribution 6 5 Increasing socially responsible investment practices 9 Stronger product/service liabilities 4 Growing importance of human resources management Economic performance (revenue, taxes, etc.) Anti-corruption (stronger internal control and protection of whistleblowers) Employment (gender, new, temporary) SME support programs 13 Indirect economic benefits 10 7 Product legal compliance (regional development projects/investment projects) 21 18 Diversity and equal opportunities for employees 19 14 11 8 Globalization and response to financial/economic crises Contribution to the development of the local environment and sports 15 Product & Service labeling (customer satisfaction) Increased youth unemployment 23 & non-regular jobs 25 20 16 12 Employee performance compensation schemes Enhanced financial/economic educations 30 24 22 Human resources development and training at the workplaces 27 Improved accessibility for Increasingly 17 Employee satisfaction enhancement (great workplace) financial inclusiveness aging society Social responsibility regarding financial Minimizing the negative impact on local communities liabilities 26 32 Reviewing CSR practices 29 28 NonContribution to the education and cultural development of local communities ◀ Low when selecting new discrimination 39 Resource and business partners Increasing number of consumers with a serious view of health, eco-friendliness and social values materials usage Obligation to respect human rights ◀ Low Business Impact High▶ Impact Areas Responsible Management Sustainable Finance Community Engagement Environmental Management Changes to Material issues (2013 Vs. 2014) Issue Rank Stronger IT security 2 1 Protecting the personal information of customers 14 2 Increasing demand for corporate transparency 15 3 Growing importance of human resources management New Stronger product/service liabilities 9 5 Social contribution New Product legal compliance New Indirect economic benefits (regional development projects / 1 18 investment projects) Social responsibility regarding financial liabilities 5 24 28 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 2013/2014 DGB Sustainability Management Material Issues We structured the content of the report based on the 32 material issues in-line with the Group’s CSR strategies, and finalized what issues were to be reported by mapping out key issues. The following table shows the priority of material issues and their relevance to the four strategies. Material issues priority & issues of high concern to stakeholder groups Strategy Theme Material Issue Rank Pages Enhancing IT security and preventing financial transaction incidents 1 34 Protecting Customer Privacy and Information Protecting customer personal information 2 35 Growing demand for corporate transparency (business ethics) 3 37 Ethical Management Anti-corruption (stronger internal control and protecting Impact Areas whistleblowers) 10 37 : Zoom-in DGB Stronger product/service liabilities 5 39 Responsible Finance Product legal compliance 7 39 Social contribution to local communities 6 40 Optimized Social Contribution for Community Increasingly aging society 26 41 Product/Service Labeling (customer satisfaction) 11 45 Customer Satisfaction Improved accessibility for financial inclusiveness 27 46 Growing importance of human resources management 4 47 Employee performance compensation schemes 12 12 Diversity and equal opportunities for employees 15 48 Responsible Human resources development and training at the workplaces 16 47 Management Employee Satisfaction Employee satisfaction enhancement (great workplace) 17 50 Employment (gender, new, temporary) 21 48 Non-discrimination 28 48 Obligation to respect human rights 29 48 Win-Win Partnerships Reviewing CSR practices when selecting new business partners* 32 53 Increasing socially responsible investment practices 9 57 Customer Value Creation SME corporate customers support programs 13 55 Sustainable Globalization and response to financial/economic crises 8 55, 59 Finance Economic performance (revenue, taxes, etc.) 14 17 Sustainable Performance Creation Social responsibilities to financial liabilities 24 60 Enhanced financial/economic educations 30 60 Indirect economic benefits (regional development projects/investment support) 18 62, 63 Contribution to the Development of Local Local Community Economies Increasing youth unemployment and non-regular jobs 25 64 Involvement & Contribution to the educational and cultural development of local Development communities 19 66 Sharing with Local Communities Contribution to the development of local environment and sports 23 66 Increasing number of consumers with serious views on health, ecoGreen Finance friendliness and social value 22 69-70 Environmental Addressing Climate Change Minimizing the negative impact on local communities 20 72 Management Environmental Performance Management Resources and materials usage* 39 74-77 * These are not the key sustainability issues, but are included in the report because they are strategically significant to the Group’s operations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 29 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Management System Disclosures on Management Approach This section focuses on our management approach to the 14 selected material issues identified from the materiality test; detailing why each issue is important; what we are doing about them; and how we measure relevant performances. How do we measure GRI Why is it important? What are we doing about it? GRI Aspect Boundary performance? Indicator Protecting •Personal information leakage entails the risk •A s a financial institution that handles •No. of cases of personal Protecting customer G4-PR8 Within of being a victim of criminal practices, such customers’ personal information, DGB information leakage privacy Customer as spam mailing, illegal marketing, and voice Financial Group applies air-tight information Information phishing. As seen in recent security scandals, security control measures. Appointing a the slightest mishap involving information chief information security officer (CISO) security can negatively affect the credibility and establishing a dedicated system for of a company. In fact, the consequences information security, we will adhere to basic of personal information leaks can often be principles when it comes to protecting immeasurable, both psychologically and customer information. physically, to businesses. Ethical •At DGB Financial Group, we believe business •DGB Financial Group is establishing ethical •No. of breaches of antiAnti-corruption, G4-SO3, Within ethics and integrity are an integral part of management within its corporate culture corruption and legal violations Ethics and integrity SO4, SO5 Management the credibility of a company. Therefore, by instituting the Code of Conduct for •No. of per-employee ethics G4-56,57,58 this issue can have a significant impact on Employees and the Guiding Principles for and human rights education the Group’s reputation, customer base, Each Job Position. At the same time, we sessions recruitment, employee welfare, and the have established the Compliance Officer •No. of internal control system environmental and social performance of an System and put into practice the Jeong-do management cases invested company. Management Program in order to further strengthen our credibility. Responsible •Changes to financial policies and laws as •DGB Financial Group put into place the •FSS’ Civil Complaint Product & G4-PR3 Within a result of the changing financial market Financial Consumer Protection Department Assessment Rating Service labeling, G4-PR4 Financing environment pose significant issues to DGB and enacted the Financial Consumer •No. of violations of laws and Compliance G4-PR9 Financial Group. Product liability and legal Protection Charter as part of its diverse regulations compliance can have a potential impact on endeavors to protect consumer rights, the economic performance, reputation and improve bad practices, and prevent and stock prices of the Group. minimize consumer complaints and damage. Optimized •As a regionally-based financial institution, •D GB Financial Group focuses its social •Percentage of social Local communities G4-SO1 Outside DGB Financial Group’s business results are contribution activities on promoting the contribution expenses to net Social under direct influence of local communities. self-sufficiency of local communities and income (KRW in millions) Contribution The economic development of Deagu and generating direct economic and social for the Gyeongbuk region poses opportunities value for them in various forms, such as job for the Group, thus the trust and reputation creation. Community of local communities are imperative to the Group’s operations. Customer •We are clearly aware that we can provide •DGB Financial Group provides a number •SME loan amount/rate (KRW Local communities FS13~14 Within & more value to our customers when we are of financial products designed for mutual in 100 millions/%) (FS) FS15~16 Outside Value faithful to our main business and thereby prosperity with local communities, while also •Sales of socially responsible Product & service Creation create shared value. In the practice of offering diverse products for under-banked investment products (KRW) labeling (FS) sustainable financing, we heartedly listen small business owners and low-credit •No. of female business to our customers’ demands and develop individuals. owners/amounts (companies/ products that attend to our economic, KRW in 100 millions) social, and environmental responsibilities. Sustainable •DGB Financial Group’s sustainable growth •D GB Financial Group strives to provide •No. of Risk Management Economic G4-EC1, Within & and revenue stream can economically benefit globally competitive financial services Committee meetings performance, EC2, EC3, Outside Performance its employees, investors, business partners t h ro u g h g ro u p w i d e s y n e r g i e s . B y (meetings) Product portfolio EC4 Results and local communities. Furthermore, its preemptively managing risks, the Group •Deposit market share in (FS) FS1~9 sustainable performance results can have timely responds to the fluctuating financial Daegu/Gyeongbuk region (%) a significant impact on its own business market environment, as well as being •Loan market share in Daegu/ expansion, organizational restructuring and involving in the development of new Gyeongbuk region (%) reinvestment in local communities. products and making socially responsible •BIS capital adequacy ratio (%) investments. •Financial classes (No. of companies/persons) Customer •Customer satisfaction is essential to customer •A t DGB Financial Group, we consider •Customer satisfaction (points) Product & Service G4-PR5 Outside relationship management, from attracting customer satisfaction to be the best •Customer satisfaction labeling (customer Satisfaction new customers and retaining them, to marketing strategy, and thus strive to education performance satisfaction) Management turning prospective customers into regulars. enhance customer satisfaction levels. (sessions) As customer satisfaction management has While improving our customer services, we a direct impact on business performance, instigated a story-based marketing approach we put customer value before anything else in order to win the minds of customers and in all our business activities, while providing make consistent efforts towards financial customers with the information they require inclusion. when making financial transactions. 30 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP How do we measure GRI Why is it important? What are we doing about it? GRI Aspect Boundary performance? Indicator Employee •Talented employees play a pivotal role in •DGB Financial Group has in place a variety •Per-employee average Employment, G4-LA1, Within maintaining business performance and of education and training programs that education hours training & LA2, LA3 Satisfaction market share. Therefore, it is important for assist in building the competencies of •Percentage of female education, G4-LA9, the Group’s sustainability to recruit talented employees, as well as various activities managers (%) diversity and LA10, LA11, employees and nurture them through the designed to promote a healthy work-life •No. of employees on sick equal opportunity, LA12 use of systematic training and providing balance. leave (persons) investments, and G4-HR1, them with a healthy and affluent life. non-discrimination HR2, HR3 Win-win •DGB Financial Group relies on outside •Committed to win-win partnerships, DGB •Complaints addressed and Outside specialized companies for its procurement, Financial Group holds annual Win-Win reflected in management partnerships IT security, credit ratings and accounting Partnership Council meetings and listens (cases) audits, as well as the organization’s legal to the suggestions/complaints of partner compliance. In this relationship, fair and companies through in-depth interviews transparent transactions are critical to the so as to better reflect their voices in our Group’s operational and reputational risks. following business plans. Green Finance •In step with growing global concerns over •D GB Financial Group is developing a •Green financial product Products & services G4-EN27, Within & environmental issues, many domestic number of green financial products and (deposit/loan) sales amount EN28 Outside and international financial institutions operating environmentally-specialized (KRW in millions) are creating financial conditions to foster stores, while continuing efforts to spread •Percentage of companies green companies as well as develop green green management practices throughout eligible for environmental products and technologies. DGB Financial the Group. impact evaluation Group, for its part, is also making varied efforts to help develop a green economy. Addressing •Climate change stemming from global •A t DGB Financial Group, we engage •Participation in the NIE energy Local communities G4-SO2 Within & warming has become an ongoing in diverse activities under the notion diary contest (persons) Outside Climate controversial issue in the global community. that environmental consciousness and •No. of activities by DGB Change Climate change poses risks, both financial behavioral change of present and future University Green Reporters and regulatory, to businesses around the generations are imperative to addressing (sessions) world, yet also poses opportunities for climate change. those ready with differentiated business practices. Environmental •G rowing business domain and size •DGB Financial Group has instituted green •Greenhouse gas emissions Within & inevitably accompanies an increase in management policies and guidelines as volume (Scopes 1, 2, and 3) Outside performance the use of resources. Efficient usage and its bylaws, and put in place a number (tCO2) management management of natural resources and the of action plans for the promotion of •Water resource use (m3) use of alternative resources help minimize green management activities on a group•Paper use (tons) our environmental impact and positively wide level. Having established the Green •Percentage of e-billing (%) contribute to our financial performance. Finance Group, which oversees group-wide environmental management practices, we are implementing and expanding the scope of such practices among our subsidiaries and supply chain. Contribution •The regional economy recently showed •DGB Financial Group engages in a number •Jobs created (new employees) Indirect economic G4-EC7, EC8 Outside signs of regaining, with recovering housing of mutual growth activities for local (persons) benefits to Local prices, stable oil prices and growing economies, such as providing business •No. of business consulting Economies exports, but per capita gross regional consulting services, pledging support to service beneficiaries domestic product (GRDP) still remains local SMEs and lending prime loans to (companies) bottom among local governments. technology-driven ventures. Committed to addressing youth unemployment and increasing the number of non-regular jobs, it also recruits more new employees and operates job experience programs for university students. Social •Supporting socially vulnerable groups •DGB Financial Group engages in diverse •DGB labor union social Local communities FS13, FS14 Outside and underprivileged people is essential community engagement programs, such contribution amount (KRW in (FS) Contribution to realizing an inclusive community for as sharing with social minority groups, millions) all. As a responsible corporate citizen sponsorships and donations. In addition, •Scholarship Cultural of the region, DGB Financial Group the Group also patronizes educational, Foundation’s scholarship returns part of its business gains to local cultural, artistic and sports activities in the contributions communities in the form of reinvestment region for local residents. and contributions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 31 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Management System Summary of Sustainability Management Performance CSR Strategic Direction 2013 key tasks 2013 Goals 2013 Progress Accomplishments 2014 Goals Percentage of Outside 85.0% 83.3% 98.0% 83.3% Directors participation rate 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% No. of anti-corruption breaches and legal violations 0건 0건 100.0% 0건 cases No. of ethics and human 22/53 24/52 109.0%/98.1% 27/52 RESPONSIBLE rights education sessions MANAGEMENT Per-employee average (SERVICE, PASSION AND education expenses KRW 1.20 million KRW 1.10 million 91.6% KRW 1.11 million HONESTY) Industrial injury rates 0% 0% 100.0% 0% Employee satisfaction 92 points 90 points 97.8% 91 points No. of VOC complaints 80 cases 135 cases 59.3% 100 cases handled Customer satisfaction 93 points 94 points 101.0% 94 points Civil petition assessment 1st grade 1st grade 100.0% 1st grade ratings Market share in Daegu/ 29.8%/35.5% 29.0%/36.2% 97.3%/102.0% 30.0%/37.0% Gyeongbuk (loans/deposits) Percentage of SME loans 61.5% 63.0% 102.4% 64.0% BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio 15.0% 15.06% 100.4% 12.6% SUSTAINABLE Micro-financing balance KRW 785.2 billion KRW 1,015.4 billion 129.3% KRW 1,100 billion FINANCE Socially responsible investKRW 13.0 billion KRW 7.79 billion 59.9% KRW 11.0 billion ments No. of companies eligible for environmental management 13,538 13,992 103.3% 15,391 checklist Green finance product sales KRW 475 billion/ KRW 538.7 billion/ KRW 562.0 billion/ amount (loan/deposit) 113.4%/55.1% KRW 350 billion KRW 157.2 billion KRW 160.0 billion No. of Business Consulting 90 67 74.4% 70 Service beneficiaries LOCAL COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT & Percentage of social DEVELOPMENT contribution expenses to net 8.5% 9.0% 105.8% 9.0% (LOVE AND SHARE) income No. of voluntary participants 22,000 22,001 100.0% 23,000 Water resource use 105,000m3 174,518m3 60.1% 173,500m3 SCOPE 1 2,288.70tCO2 2,095tCO2 109.2% 2,080tCO2 ENVIRONMENTAL Total greenhouse MANAGEMENT gas SCOPE 2 27,194.40tCO2 28,051tCO2 96.9% 28,000tCO2 (GREEN INITIATIVE) emissions SCOPE 3 324.90tCO2 2,414tCO2 13.4% 2,400tCO2 Total paper use 105 tons 119.3 tons 88.0% 118.0 tons 32 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Protecting Customer Privacy & Information IMPACT AREAS : 32 Zoom-in DGB 34 Ethical Management Protecting customer privacy & information | DGB Financial Group appointed a chief information security officer (CISO) in 2013 and Responsible Financing 36 established information security infrastructure, thus adhering to basic principles and applying its utmost effort to protect customer information. Ethical management | DGB Financial Group is establishing ethical management within its corporate culture by instituting the Code of Conduct for Employees and the Guiding Principles for Each Job Position. In addition, we prepared the Compliance Officer System and put into practice the Jeong-do Management Program as part of efforts to raise our credibility. Responsible Financing | DGB Financial Group established the Financial Community Engagement Programs Consumer Protection Department and enacted the Financial Consumer 38 Protection Charter as part of its diverse endeavors to protect consumer rights, improve bad practices, and prevent and minimize consumer complaints and damage. Optimized Social Contribution for Community | DGB Financial Group implements community engagement management based on the trust and support of local residents, and carries out a number of social contribution programs, such as social welfare projects, cultural/artistic/ sports programs, environmental/global projects, education/scholarship programs, social enterprises and DGB Volunteer Corps. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 33 Impact Areas : Zoom-in DGB Protecting Customer Material Issue Strengthening IT Privacy and Security & Preventing Financial Incident Information Q The recent data theft scandals involving financial companies and of our Internet-based customer services. Additionally, firewalls have been upgraded telecommunications service providers in Korea resulted in a great deal of at each step of the Internet banking procedure, bolstering the overall security and social stress. What measures does DGB Financial Group take to protect availability of our Internet banking services. We have also improved our responsiveness the personal information of customers? to various browsers (safari, firefox, and chrome), as well as securing Internet banking services on these browsers. In promotion of mobile-based operations, we adopted A Personal information leakage entails the risks of being abused in criminal practices, such as spam mailing, illegal marketing, or voice phishing. Personal information leakage entails the risk of being a victim of criminal practices, such mobile device management (MDM) solutions and completed security solutions for enhanced infrastructure for mobile security software, such as mobile web/app counterfeiting prevention, traffic encryption, virtual keypad, and firewall. as spam mailing, illegal marketing, and voice phishing. As seen in recent security scandals, the slightest mishap involving information security can negatively affect the Daegu Bank Information Security System credibility of a company. In fact, the consequences of personal information leaks can be immeasurable, both psychologically and physically, to businesses. Clearly aware of Server Security Network Security this, DGB Financial Group, a financial institution that handles the personal information •Implementation of Server OS Security System to •DDoS detection/blocking system of customers, applies air-tight information security control measures. In 2011, we configure access controls •Intrusion Prevention System for blocking hacker attacks •Conformity with the requirements of the ‘Measures to •Intrusion Prevention System (1st and 2nd levels) appointed chief information security officer (CISO) and established a dedicated system Ensure the Safety of Electronic Financial Services’ by the •Intrusion Detection System for detecting hacker attacks FSS •Enterprise security management (ESM) system for information security. We have also completed infrastructure within the organization, •Harmful website access blocking system •Network access control (NAC) system and will adhere to basic principles when it comes to protecting customer information. Security Assessment Service Security •Consulting on information security through outside •Government-provided “digital certificate” specialist and financial ISA (twice a year) Establishment •Keyboard security/hacker attack blocking system Q Introduce us to the Group’s information security system. •Self-assessment through the utilization of server/web service security hole analysis system of Integrated Security Control Strategies •Anti-phishing programs •User PC Security Control System •Spams/Virus e-mail blocking system A DGB Financial Group boasts the nation’s leading customer information protection system. While we e concentrated on infrastructure for IT security in 2012, 2013 was about establishing substantial information security practices. In particular, Daegu Database Security •Database protection through database access control system Terminal Security •Document Security & Digital Rights Management (DRM) for preventing information breaches •Inspection and audits on users’ access rights •PC firewalls/real-time virus blocking systems •Restriction on profiles and system resources •Data Loss Prevention (DLP) by restricting access to Bank upgraded its PC control and integrated PC protection system to reinforce the •Management of the end users’ pass codes storage devices (USB, CD, R/W, etc.) monitoring of customer privacy and personal information protection. A web-based •Patch Management System (PMS) •Complete data wipe (H/W), complete deletion program anti-counterfeiting solution was established to strengthen the operation and safety 34 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Q What are the roles and responsibilities of the chief information security officer (CISO) in regards to protecting customer information? Q Please introduce the differentiated customer information protection services of DGB Financial Group. A DGB Financial Group was the first regional bank to appoint a CISO in 2011. The CISO oversees all IT system operations, including collection/usage/disposal of personal information, provision/consignment of personal information, the safe A Daegu Bank has in place a DGB Secret Account service designed to protect customer rights and keep information confidential. The DGB Secret Account management of personal information, protecting the rights of information providers, Service is a PB-exclusive service that allows only the primary accountholder to have and personal information security education. access to their bank account. Bank employees do not have access to these accounts, except from the branches where the accounts were originally opened, thus keeping all related information confidential. Other bank services include a safe account inquiry service that conceals account numbers and account holder names during financial Q Share with us the track record of DGB Financial Group regarding personal information leakage. transactions, and a security account service that blocks all e-transactions, including inquiries and account transfers through Internet banking or phone-based banking services. A DGB Financial Group has remained free of any such accident since its establishment in 2006. We monitor our customer information management practices on a regular basis through a round-the-clock security monitoring system in partnership with the Korea Financial Telecommunications & Clearings Institute (KFTC), as well as regular system checking. We strive to prevent customer information leaks at Q What future plans does DGB Financial Group have to protect customer privacy and information? source through the use of PC security programs, anti-virus programs and the DRM. Personal Information Leaks by Year A DGB Financial Group initiated a project in 2014 to upgrade Daegu Bank’s IT system. The main purpose is to improve the existing information security system’s functionality and enhance operational efficiency in order to help the bank better protect our customers’ privacy and personal information. 0 0 0 0 0 2006-2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 35 Impact Areas : Zoom-in DGB Ethical Management Material Issue Increasing demand for transparency (ethical management) Material Issue Anti-corruption (stronger internal control and protecting whistleblowers) 36 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Q What does DGB Financial Group do in response to the growing social demand for ethical management? Ethics & Human Rights Education Performance by Year Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) A At DGB Financial Group, we believe business ethics and integrity are an integral part of the credibility of a company. Therefore, this issue can have a significant impact on the Group’s reputation, customer base, recruitment, employee welfare, and Average number of ethics education sessions per employee 19 21 24 27 the environmental and social performance of an invested company. DGB Financial Average number of human Group is establishing ethical management within its corporate culture by instituting the rights education sessions 52 52 52 52 per employee Code of Conduct for Employees and the Guiding Principles for Each Job Position. At the same time, we introduced the Compliance Officer System and put into practice the DGB Financial Group is consistently tightening its internal control system. Daegu Bank Jeong-do Management Program as part of efforts to raise our credibility. operates a “whistle-blowing center” page on its corporate website for the reporting of unethical practices, as well as applies exhaustive auditing (routine, general, ad hoc, and ordinary auditing) to reinforce credibility and transparency in financial transactions. Q What kinds of systems do DGB Financial Group have in place in regards to ethical management and anti-corruption? Internal Control System Operational Performance (cases) Report by registered mail: addressed to staff in charge of whistle-blowing at the Compliance Department A DGB Financial Group has enacted the Ethics Code of Conduct for its employees Legal Compliance System Category 2011 2012 2013 and conducts various campaigns in order to raise an individual employees’ ethical Routine Audit 1,454 1,487 1,393 Whistle-blowing Hotline awareness. The Group conducts monthly compliance self-assessment and ethics training at each branch, as well as an ethics management rediscovery program so as to General Audit 273 285 298 Whistle-blowing e-mail incorporate ethical management practices into our corporate culture. All these efforts Ad hoc Audit 25 11 12 Whistle-blowing Center (corporate are directed at maintaining customer trust in the Group as a reliable financial partner by Ordinary Audit 146,361 354,399 913,677 website) reinforcing employee job ethics and legal compliance awareness, as well as developing their ethical decision-making capabilities. In particular, all contracting procedures are Q culminated in integrity pacts collected from the counterparts. Where there any cases of violations of laws or regulations regarding ethical management or anti-corruption in 2013? Jeong-do Management: A At DGB Financial Group, we make every effort to eradicate corruptive practices, such as bribery and embezzlement. For its advanced system, risk calculation model and process innovation, as well as continued education programs designed to going back to basic principles enhance employee specialties and awareness, Daegu Bank was commended by the “Sharing our dreams and prosperity with local communities” Korean Prime Minister as an excellent performer in the anti-money laundry campaign We are committed to creating a better future through the provision of financial services. at the 7th Anti-Money Laundry Day ceremony in December 2013. Legal Violations Codes of ethics Code of conduct for employees Ethical Practice Program Integrity and ethical behavior are Translating ethics into action is the Practicing business ethics is our Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) fundamental values. beginning of practicing Jeong-do commitment to customers. Management No. of violations 0 3 0 0 (cases) Ethical Management Rediscovery Program Q What future plans are there for the continued promotion of transparency in business operations and ethical management practices? •Implementing “Ethical Management AwarenessRaising Day” •Sharing examples of money laundry attempts being •Investigation of case studies regarding dispersed overseas remittance and applications to the Foreign Exchange Control Law A DGB Financial Group conducts various programs and systems to establish a corporate culture that adheres to the basic principles and puts ethical management before everything else. In order to facilitate the establishment of ethical prevented •Education regarding credit card application •Sharing examples of financial accidents being requirements management within the organization, the company has been commemorating “Ethical prevented •Education on compensatory deposit requirements Management Awareness-Raising Day” on the first and second Monday of each month, •Education on Real-Name Financial Transactions and •Education on the Code of Conduct and sexual as well as regular monthly ethics education. Additionally, we will continue to bolster Guarantee of Secrecy Act harassment prevention in the workplace our internal control system, while increasing the channels for whistle-blowing. Ethical Practice Programs Enactment of code Legal compliance Various employee of conduct and Internal Control Integrity pact Ethical Practice Day self-assessment (first education programs Whistle-blowing integrity pact (the Legal Compliance (contracting (monthly) business day of every (at least once a program (at all times) beginning of each Council (quarterly) procedures) month) month) year) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 37 Impact Areas : Zoom-in DGB Responsible Finance Material Issue Product Legal Compliance Material Issue Product & Service Liabilities 38 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Q What does DGB Financial Group do to meet the growing demand for Six Regulatory Principle of Marketing responsible finance and the protection of financial consumer rights? Category Details Principle of A principle that investment adviser must reasonably believe that A DGB Financial Group is committed to protecting the rights of financial consumers, mending irregularities in its business practices, and minimizing consumer inconvenience. As recommended in the Good Practices for Financial Consumer Protect Suitability a certain investment decision will benefit a client before making a recommendation to him/her based on their apprehension of a client’s financial status developed by the World Bank, Daegu Bank created a Financial Consumer Protection Principle of A principle that investment adviser must notify the client when he/ Department and appointed a chief consumer officer (CCO) in July 2013. We have also Adequacy she is to purchase a product that is not deemed adequate to his/her enacted the Financial Consumer Protection Charter. Inviting customers to participate in financial conditions the planning of new financial products, preparing sales guidelines for our products and Obligation of Obligation to provide adequate explanation of a product that a client is mending our framework of follow-ups, we have introduced a system that will allow Explanation about to purchase us to prevent customer inconvenience at source. Furthermore, each of our 300 nationProhibition on tying Prohibition on the practice of selling unsolicited products or services as wide branches has a dedicated employee in charge of consumer rights protection. practices a mandatory addition to the purchase of a different product or service Prohibition Prohibition on the illegal solicitation practices of providing information on unsolicited based on factual error or wrongful judgment marketing practices Q Employees working at points of contact with customers play a pivotal role in the bank’s commitment to protecting financial consumers. Please, Advertisement Guidelines on the essentials of financial product advertisement and Standards prohibited practices share with us their activities. Source: Financial Services Commission A Daegu Bank has introduced the Financial Consumer Protection Charter that calls for improving irregularities, the prompt redemption of damage and the elimination of illegal marketing activities, and provides employees with regular education every month on the DGB Consumer Protection Day. In addition, employees Q What are the future plans of DGB Financial Group in regards to providing responsible financing and protecting financial consumer rights? share customer complaints and self-check their consumer protection practices in order to constantly improve their practices. Furthermore, every employee strictly abides by the principles for businesses as provided by the Financial Services Commission, thus A DGB Financial Group has in place several programs for financial inclusion and the protection of financial consumers, as well as the higher financial welfare of local residents. For instance, we have increased stakeholder engagement in each phase minimizing the risk of mis-selling and customer complaints at source. of our financial service providing processes, while also promoting transparency and fairness in our financial services. Daegu Bank Financial Consumer Protection Charter 2013 Major Achievements •We shall provide sufficient information and assist our consumers in making rational Daegu Bank, Exemplary Bank for Reducing Civil Complaints decisions. •We shall refrain from conducting irrational business practices by listening to our Daegu Bank was singled out as an exemplary organization for reducing civil complaints at the consumers’ requests. 1st Civil Complaints Inspection Day organized by the FSS in May 2013. At the event, designed by the nation’s financial authority to promote the private sectors’ awareness of civil complaints and •We shall promptly and fairly respond to our consumers’ complaints. financial consumer protection, Daegu Bank was highlighted for its remarkable performances •We shall not engage in any unethical sales practices, nor shall we make irrational in consumer-oriented corporate culture, community engagement programs, the promotion of discrimination that infringes on consumer rights. consumers’ right of choice and other consumer protection practices. •We shall fulfill our responsibility as a member of the local community and provide assistance to financially disadvantage populations. Top-Rating in FSS’s Civil Complaint Assessment for 8th Straight Year Daegu Bank earned a grade 1 rating for the eighth consecutive year in the Civil Complaint Assessment by the FSS in April 2014. Every year, the Korea’s Financial Voice of Customers Supervisory Service (FSS) reviews civil complaints regarding financial institutions’ services and other Category 2011 2012 2013 operations for that year, along with an institution’s Complaints 197 83 135 commitment to addressing such complaints in consideration of its total assets and customer base. Issues 292 348 248 Daegu Bank was the only Korean bank to receive a first Praises 408 509 512 grade in the 2013 assessment, and therefore making it the only Korean bank to maintain a first grade for 8 Others 209 763 140 straight years from 2006 to 2014. Total 1,106 1,703 1,035 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Plan) Civil Complaint 1st grade 1st grade 1st grade 1st grade Assessment Rating SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 39 Impact Areas : Zoom-in DGB Optimized Social Contribution for Community Material Issue Social Contribution Q ‘Local communities have a direct impact on the business performance of DGB Financial Group, which has the lion’s share of its business in the regional communities of Daegu and Gyeongbuk. In other words, the development of the local economy poses opportunities for the Group to grow. Consequently, the trust and reputation with local communities is essential to the Group’s prosperity. In this context, what does DGB Financial Group do to contribute to the development of local communities? A DGB Financial Group is well aware that its growth to date can be accredited to the trust and support of its local residents. In return for their continued support, the Group engages in a number of social contribution programs, such as social welfare, cultural/artistic/sports projects, environmental/global projects, educational/scholarship programs, social enterprises, and DGB Volunteer Corps. Recently, the Group has focused on leading a new paradigm of social contribution by reaching out further to help local communities stand on their own feet financially and socially through projects such as job creation. Examples include the Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace which opened in 2012 and the Bluebird Multi-cultural Welfare Center which opened in 2013. Q Given the fact that the Daegu and Gyeongbuk region is one of the most aging communities in Korea, the Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace seems to address the growing need of jobs for seniors. A Yes, it does. It was launched to preemptively address the growing social need for workplaces that provide decent jobs to local senior residents, thus assisting them with financial independence. At the moment, 10 senior citizens are working for the Center. Their main jobs are cleaning and sterilizing toys at various local childcare centers, including kindergartens and daycare centers. Directed at providing socially vulnerable groups with paying jobs, the project has been well received by local communities as it has changed the social contribution paradigm in a more sustainable way. 40 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Material Issue Aging Society Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace 1. Total welfare program for senior jobseekers 2. Fostering senior citizens as toy-cleaning specialists 3. Helping clients keep their premises neat and clean 4. Synergy efforts of creating jobs Q Introduce us to the Bluebird Multi-cultural Welfare Center. A t the moment, approximately 6,700 immigrants with diverse national backgrounds reside in the eight districts of Daegu City, with the number growing each year. In order to help immigrant residents quickly adapt to our culture, DGB Social Contribution Foundation opened the Bluebird Multi-cultural Welfare Center in October 2013. The Center offers individual and family counseling services to help immigrants with problems arising from cultural differences. Art and play therapy are also offered to children from multi-cultural families so as to help them better adapt to their peers. In March 2014, the Center entered into an MOU with the Transactional Analysis Counseling Academy for bilateral partnerships on promoting the welfare of multi-cultural families through increased specialized counseling services for marriage-immigrants and their children. Of particular note was that the partnership enabled a more specialized counseling service regarding child peer group issues and teacher relationship issues. This allowed the Center to complete an integrated case study system that provides follow-ups with the mentoring programs. Q What are DGB Financial Group’s future plans for optimized social contribution for community? A A DGB Financial Group’s DGB Social Contribution Foundation is operating the “Future Generation Education Project Group”, which recently become the first in the Korean financial sector to earn the certificate of social enterprise. Coupled with DGB Financial Group’s commitment to providing jobs and support to local minority groups, the Project Group will commit itself to promoting educational equality for the local youths and children so that they can grow with hope and vision of a brighter future. In the future, we plan to introduce more education courses to cultivate expertise in our staff, while providing services such as counseling for students, and arranging meetings between students and their job mentors and camps. All proceeds from such programs will be reinvested into social services for children from underprivileged families. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 41 CSR STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE I. Responsible Management II. Sustainable Finance Service, Passion, Honesty Sustainable Finance •Customer Satisfaction 45 •Customer Value Creation 55 •Employee Satisfaction 47 •Sustainable Performance Creation 59 •Win-Win Partnerships 53 42 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP III. Local Community IV. Environmental Involvement & Development Management Love & Share Green Initiative •Contribution to the Development of •Green Finance 69 Local Economies 62 •Addressing Climate Change 71 •Sharing with Local Communities 65 •Environmental Performance Management 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 43 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Service,Management Responsible 2013 Major Achievements Passion, DGB Financial Group is committed to enhancing customer value through industryleading financial services, while realizing family-friendly working environments that help Financial terms amended Honesty employees balance between life and work with a high sense of morality. Sustainability Management Organization Material Issues Sustainability 130units Management Working Council Customer satisfaction Ethics & Corporate Culture Council Stakeholder Concerns DGB Data Daegu Credit ❶ Growing importance Daegu Bank DGB Capital U-Payment of human resource System Information management Employment (gender, new, temporary) ❼ •Change •Business •Business •Service •Business Diversity and equal opportunities for ❹ ❷ Product & service labeling (customer satisfaction) Innovation Department •HRM Department Strategy Division (Strategy Planning Support Team Operation Department Support Department Promoting financial ❽ employees Human resources development and ❺ ❸ Employee performance compensation schemes training at the ❻ Employee satisfaction enhancement (great workplace) 94points inclusion workplaces •Compliance Department) ❿ ❾ Non-discrimination Department  Obligation to •IT Planning Reviewing CSR respect human Per-employee training hours practices when rights Department selecting new business partners Business Impact Strategic Direction Customer ❷Product & service labeling (customer satisfaction) ❽Promoting financial inclusion satisfaction Management 39hours ❶Growing importance of human resource ❻Employee satisfaction enhancement (great Employee satisfaction management workplace) ❸Employee performance compensation schemes ❼Employment (gender, new, temporary) Creation of employee ❹Diversity and equal opportunities for employees ❾Non-discrimination value ❺Human resources development and training at ❿Obligation to respect human rights the workplaces Win-win partnerships Reviewing CSR practices when selecting new business partners with business partners 91points Key Performance Indicators Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Per-employee average ethics/human 19/52 21/52 24/52 27/52 rights education (sessions) Per-employee average education hours 46 33.8 39 40 (hours) Percentage of female managers (%) 12.9 13.6 15.7 16.5 No. of employees on sick leave, 20 21 16 20 including those on vacation (persons) 44 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Responsible Management _ Service, Passion, Honesty Customer Satisfaction CONTEXT & CHALLENGES Customer satisfaction is essential to customer relationship management, from attracting new customers and retaining them, to turning prospective customers into regulars. As customer satisfaction management has a direct impact on business performance, we put customer value before everything in our business activities, while providing customers with adequate information in support of their rational and fair financial transactions. OUR APPROACH At DGB Financial Group, we consider customer satisfaction management as the best marketing strategy, and thus apply our utmost to enhance customer satisfaction levels. While stepping up our customer services, we took a story-based marketing approach to win the minds of customers and consistently improve our services for financial inclusion. OUR PROGRESS Customer-oriented Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Management Management In 2013, Daegu Bank launched its key marketing brand “Engage Your Customers”. To that effect, the bank developed educational programs and systems for its employees to actively engage in communication with customers, raise their awareness of customer complaints and financial consumer protection, while striving to reduce customer complaints. In October 2013, the bank hosted the DGB Hope Forum for its executives and 250 branch managers on the subject of protecting financial consumer rights and financial company’s IT operations. Storytelling Marketing In a more friendly approach to its customers, Daegu Bank introduced Storytelling Marketing at its branch offices. With characteristic interior decorations that reflect the special features of each branch office, the new marketing approach is bringing about change in our branch network. Financial terms amended Amending Financial Jargon Committed to helping customers better understand financial jargon, Daegu Bank amended approximately 130 incomprehensible financial terms and published its Improved Financial Terms Standards. By conducting surveys on customers and employees, the bank improved 58 terms in deposit operations, 38 terms in loan-extending operations, 11 terms in credit card 130units operations, 8 terms in Internet banking services, 7 terms in trust products, 4 terms in Call Center services, and 3 terms regarding mobile-phone banking service codes. Stakeholder Interview Customers are concerned about uncertainties, unpredictability, and opacity in financial markets. DGB Financial Group needs to enhance the systematic operation and efficiency of its basic deposit-taking and loan-extending operations so that it can raise stability and transparency for the sake of sustainable growth. Hak-su, Kim, owner of Cafe Helens SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 45 Services to Promote Financial Services for the Disabled Financial Inclusion Daegu Bank introduced the DGB Open Bank (http://open.dgb.co.kr) service especially for the visually-impaired in April 2013. Developed under Korean Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, the website offers voice browser and keyboardbased Internet banking services. Visually-impaired customers can use the voice-based Internet banking service with the help of a screen reader program, while the keyboard-based Internet banking service is available for those who find using a mouse uncomfortable. Braille Credit/Check Cards for Visually Impaired Daegu Bank has been issuing braille credit cards and check cards for visuallyimpaired customers since January 2013. Marking key information on the front of such cards, like product names, serial numbers and valid date, in Braille, the new service has significantly improved customer services. The bank plans to expand this service to all its card products in the future. Portable DGB Team for Financial Accessibility For the improved financial convenience of customers, Daegu Bank launched the Portable DGB Team service in October 2013. The team travels to customers lacking access to the bank’s branches or those living in areas without nearby branches, providing basic teller services and more professional financial counseling services, such as financial transaction inquiries, account-opening, check card issuance, and other e-financing services. Customer Daegu bank wins Grand Prize in bank category at 8th Korea Service Awards Satisfaction Daegu Bank was awarded the grand prize in the financial services bank category at the 8th Korea Service Satisfaction Enhancement Awards in April 2014. The bank won the award for its commitment to customer communication, raising public awareness of financial consumer protection and reducing customer complaints. The bank was nominated through the paper-screening of its service practices and business strategies, and due diligence of its service practices via phone and visit-monitoring. It was the only prizewinner among Korean banks. Starting in 2014, Daegu Bank is spurring its customer satisfaction service so that it can realize an even higher level of customer satisfaction through the organic convergence of consumer protection and customer satisfaction services. Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction Category 2011 2012 2013 1Q 2014 Customer Satisfaction Scores 92 points 93 points 94 points 94.54 points Daegu Bank runs annual customer satisfaction surveys to provider better customer services by employing the NICE R&C, which is the universal survey system in the Korean financial sector. These phone-based surveys are conducted on all branches every month, with visit-monitoring conducted at all branches every two months. Daegu Bank is earning high scores relative to other financial institutions as a result of its consistent endeavor to realize higher customer 94points satisfaction. 46 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Responsible Management _ Service, Passion, Honesty Employee Satisfaction CONTEXT & CHALLENGES Talented employees play a pivotal role in maintaining business performance and market share. Therefore, it is important for the Group’s sustainability to recruit talented employees and nurture them through the use of systematic training and providing them with a healthy and affluent life. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group has in place a variety of education and training programs that assist in building the competencies of employees, as well as various activities designed to promote a healthy work-life balance. In addition, employees’ job performances and career development are constantly monitored and reviewed. OUR PROGRESS Talent Building New Employees’ Competence Management Daegu Bank has a mentoring program in which mentors help new employees adapt to the organization and their job duties. Fostering Experts Daegu Bank operates a tailored roadmap and systematic career development program (CDP) so as to foster experts. A variety of competence-building courses are also conducted in the areas of foreign exchange (F/X), derivatives, F/ X investments, and bond operations. Additionally, employees working in equity, bond and derivatives operations are posted at other investment companies for on-site training regarding advanced investment techniques. Cultivating Core Talents Daegu Bank operates various training programs to foster future leaders. These programs include—an MBA course at KAIST (Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology), international specialist training in China, and a pre-CEO course and advance finance course at Seoul National University—through which core talents can nurture management theories and practices. Lifelong Learning Program Per-employee training hours Starting in February 2014, Daegu Bank has introduced the Continuous Learning Support System and Job Accreditation System to foster experts and establish life-long learning practices within its corporate culture. This will help us reinforce our human resource competitiveness in the fast-changing financial market. Employee Training Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Per-employee average education hours 46 33.8 39 40 39 hours Per-employee average education expenses (KRW 1,000) 1,110 1,110 1,100 1,110 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 47 Human Rights Promoting Job Security Protection To preemptively address social issues concerning non-regular jobs in the Korean financial sector, Daegu Bank and Nonreemployed all 150 contract-based, non-regular tellers and one computer programmer and one IT employee as regular employees in February 2013. The move helped promote job security and inspire pride and loyalty among our Discrimination employees. Furthermore, the bank has hired only regular workers during its annual recruitment since 2013. First Regional Bank to Select Female Division Director Daegu Bank does not discriminate against gender when it comes to evaluating employees’ performance. In 2013, Daegu Bank became the first regional bank in Korea to assign a female to the position of divisional director. Coupled with outstanding competence and expertise in our business, the compassionate and subtle leadership of the newly assigned female director is highly expected to propel the company forward. Percentage of female managers (%) 16.5 15.7 12.9 13.6 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) No. of employees reemployed as regular staff (persons) 87 156 47 2011 2012 2013 Workforce Breakdown (persons, %) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Regular (persons) 2,547 2,626 2,776 2,850 Contract-based (persons) 374 376 264 260 Male (%) 42.1 57 50.3 47.0 Female (%) 57.9 43 49.7 53.0 Percentage of Female Workers (%) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Position Percentage of female bankers to 72.4 72.5 74.5 73.4 overall bankers Percentage of female managers to 12.9 13.6 15.7 17.2 overall managers Contract Type Percentage of female workers to overall contract-based regular 40 41.2 44.9 45 workers Percentage of female workers to 54.6 54.5 32.8 32 overall contract-based workers 48 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP No. of Employees on Maternity Leave & Return to Work Category 2011 2012 2013 No. of employees on maternity leave (persons) 107 102 104 No. of employees who have returned from maternity leave 99 90 47 for the year (persons) Return rate (Return rate from maternity leave, %) 92.5 88.2 45.2 No. of employees who retired after maternity leave (persons) 8 12 4 *Employees can take up to two years maternity leave. As a result of this, there have been some disparities in the calculation of the number of people going on leave and those returning. Therefore, the number of employees returning from leave is designated as those who have returned to work for the year, while the return rate is the ratio of employees on leave to those who returned for the year. Work-Life PC Shut-down Program on Family Day Balance As part of its family-friendly policy to help employees achieve a healthy work life balance, Daegu Bank has designated Wednesdays as Family Day. To encourage employees to leave the office on time, all office computers are turned off at office 18:30 every Wednesday. Smart Vacation Program Daegu Bank has instigated a Smart Vacation Program since 2013 in order to encourage employees take vacations so that they can strike the right balance between work and life. The program includes subsidizing vacation expenses and an intranet bulletin board for employees to share reviews and useful tips on good lodges and places to go. A Family-Friendly Workplace Daegu Bank promotes maternity protection system in order to help female employees with pregnancy, labor and childcare. Since 2008, the bank has been running an in-house daycare center, and also offers one-year paid leave to infertile couples as well as fertility clinic subsidies and leave for fertility treatment. Family-Friendly Programs Program Description Smart Vacation Program ·Employees can take up to 8 days vacation to refresh themselves and enhance work efficiency with increased creativity ·Subsidies to vacation expenses Culture Programs ·DGB Healing Culture events, tickets to musical performances such as Jump and Broadway 42nd Child Support Programs ·Bank CEO’s special gifts to children entering elementary school ·Company-sponsored presentations on efficient learning strategies and university entrance strategies in the runup to new semesters ·Bank CEO’s special gifts to children taking their SATs No. of children registered at the ‘DGB Children’s Dream Nursery’ (unit: persons) 117 120 104 112 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 49 A Happy Great Workplace In the lobby of Daegu Bank’s head office is the Space of Fragrance, which features seasonal colors to brighten the atmosphere, and a pianist playing the piano during commutation hours and lunch breaks. The area also features the Fragrant Postbox, which provides a good channel for communication among employees. Employee Health Promotion Program Daegu Bank runs annual health campaigns to enhance the efficiency of its human resources and establish a healthy corporate culture. In 2013, the bank launched the “I Love ME Health” campaign, while continuing to provide health education via the intranet on subjects such as first aid, CPR, chronic disease care, and healthy habits designed to prevent cancer. Program Eligibility Healthcare Tips Success Rate Metabolic Diagnosed by the co-occurrence of elevated Body fat controlling and diet ·No. of participants: 67 employees Syndrome blood pressure, blood sugar and neutral lipid ·Success cases: 45 employees (67 %) Immunity Diagnosed with below-standard leukocyte Various immunity enhancement ·No. of participants: 55 employees Enhancement levels programs ·Success cases: 34 employees (61%) Healthcare Call Branches selected from those who requested ·Measuring blood pressure, blood sugar and body mass Service ·Testing the sympathetic nerves and parasympathetic nerves (serotonin hormone level) (surveys for stress test) ·Health management counseling for employees and their families Stress Management Daegu Bank operates the Healthcare Call Service to educate employees on stress management. The DGB Happy Family Center offers psychotherapy to employees and their families in partnership with in-house and outsourced counselors. Sick Leave Absentees and Lost Hours Due to Illness Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Sick leave absentees (persons) 20 21 16 20 Lost hours due to illness (hours) 4,321 3,742 2,826 3,650 Lost hours from overwork (hours) 0 0 0 0 Criteria: sick leave and hours of vacancy Employee Satisfaction Enhancement Employee Satisfaction Daegu Bank conducts annual surveys regarding employee satisfaction aimed at creating a better quality of life for employees. The bank also offers an assortment of welfare policies, health promotion campaigns, and culture events designed to bring about higher levels of satisfaction in the workplace. Employee Satisfaction (points) 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) 91points 89 91 90 91 50 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Welfare Pension Memberships Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of employees enrolled (persons) 2,705 2,755 2,980 2,985 Enrollment rate (%) 92.8 92.2 97.2 97 Support for Funeral Costs Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of funerals supported (cases) 600 650 81 85 Total amount of support (KRW in millions) 491 423 121,5 127 Funeral supplies and personnel, transportation is provided for the funerals of employees, their spouses, children, parents and spouses’ parents. DGB Happy Family Center As part of the Employee Assistance Program, Daegu Bank operates the DGB Happy Family Center, in which certified employees provide job coaching, problem-solving, health, legal, tax and financial consulting services. Furthermore, diverse experts from outside agencies offer counseling services on various issues, including those regarding children and parents, so as to better promote a happy work-life balance for our employees. A Maternity-Friendly Company at the 4th Work-Life Balance Daegu CEO Forum Daegu Bank received the commendation by the Ministry of Health and Welfare for its successful maternity-friendly policies in July 2013. The bank was also named a maternity-friendly company at the 4th Work-Live Balance Daegu CEO Forum in October. Organized to raise public awareness and find solutions to low birthrate, the Forum features a childbirth promotion campaign and special lectures. Open Corporate Communicative Management ‘Help CEO/Answer Me DGB’ Culture Daegu Bank operates a number of channels for communication among departments and employees of different ranks. The ‘Help CEO/Answer Me DGB’ is an anonymous/registered intranet channel that provides employees with direct access to the CEO. Wink-Talk Program Daegu Bank runs the Wink-Talk program to promote mutual understanding among employees. Employees can deliver positive messages and praise either anonymously or not, and has been found to positively help raise morale among employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 51 Open HR Practices Under the slogan “Open HR Practices,” Daegu Bank engages in active communication with its employees. While promoting employee understanding of the personnel management system, the bank also reflects feedback in its creative personnel management practices. Consisting of employees selected from branches and head office, the program promotes active communication between the bank and employees. In addition, a regular Open HR Counseling bulletin on the intranet provides employees with information regarding HR grievances. Cooperative and Harmonious Labor-Management Relationship Daegu Bank recognizes the labor union as an organization for protecting the rights of its workers and therefore respects its freedom. As of the end of 2013, all employees eligible to join the labor union are allowed to do so. Daegu Bank Labor Union Membership Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Entire workforce (persons) 2,547 2,618 2,926 2,973 No. of employees eligible for union membership (persons) 1,976 1,931 2,253 2,287 Percentage of labor union members to workforce (%) 77.6 73.7 77 76.9 Percentage of labor union members to those eligible (%) 100 100 100 100 Eligibility: Executives, higher ranked employees (over level 3), or employees in the human resources department and secretary’s office are not eligible for union membership. 52 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Responsible Management _ Service, Passion, Honesty Win-Win Partnerships CONTEXT & CHALLENGES DGB Financial Group relies on specialized outside companies for its procurement, IT security, credit ratings and accounting audits, as well as the organization’s legal compliance. In this relationship, fair and transparent transactions are critical to the Group’s operational and reputational risks. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group manages its supply chain for reputation risk management and cost efficiency, as well as to enhance the quality of procurement and services and promote product and service innovation. While maintaining close relationships through conferences with partner companies, the Group strives to enhance the competitiveness of its entire supply chain through the promotion of sustainability management practices and education. OUR PROGRESS Promoting Conferences with Business Partners Sustainability DGB Financial Group holds regular conferences regarding win-win partnerships with business partners. Held in May 2014, the DGB Financial Group Conference on ‘Win-Win Partnerships with Business Partners’ provided a Management on venue for sharing the previous year’s performance and future plans regarding the Group’s Green Management and Supply Chain Sustainability Management practices. Conferences with Business Partners Type 2012 2013 2014 Proposals by business 0 proposal 1 proposal 2 proposal partners Regional advantage in the selection Expanding educational support to of business partners business partners (safety, ethics and sustainability management) Appropriate compensation for weekend and overnight overtime Suggestions by 1 proposal 1 proposal 1 proposal DGB Financial Group Introduction of green procurement Introduction of green procurement Improvement to the business guidelines standards partners management system Next Steps Resolutions 1 suggestion in progress 1 proposal in progress Proposal under review DGB Financial Group is Promoting Sustainability Awareness Among Business Partners considering a code of conduct for its business partners, DGB Financial Group has provided education on Sustainability Management Trends and Strategies in order to help as well as establishing a management system and business partners raise awareness of sustainability management. During the session, participants discussed market education programs designed trends, such as the significance of a sustainable supply chain, major domestic and international issues concerning to promote sustainability supply chains, and sustainability management evaluation schemes regarding supply chain, as well as exchanged management practices. opinions on the future directions of DGB Financial Group business partners. Stakeholder Interview The Daegu regional economy is currently experiencing difficult times, yet Daegu citizens trust and are loyal to DGB because together they have experienced ups and downs. Therefore, I think the partnerships between DGB and its business partners are sustainable. I would like to ask DGB to fulfill its responsibility to local communities as a regional bank in discovering and supporting local SMEs with competitive technologies. Gil-jo Lee, owner of Mijin Printing SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 53 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Sustainable Sustainable Finance 2013 Major Achievements Finance Committed to the development of regional economy and industry, DGB Financial Group is developing financial products that contribute to the sustainable growth of the region and providing total financial service that contributes to social value. SME Loans Amount Sustainability Management Organization Material Issues Sustainability Management Working Council KRW 15.3trillion Sustainable Public funds for socially Finance Council responsible investment DGB Data Daegu Credit Daegu Bank DGB Capital U-Payment System Information ❻ Employee satisfaction enhancement (great workplace) Stakeholder Concerns •Loan •Business •Business •Service •Business Marketing Strategy Support Operation Support Planning Division Team Department Department Department (Strategy ❷ Increasing socially responsible investment practices •Deposit Planning 27million Marketing Department) ❸ SME support programs Planning Department Economic performance ❹ ❶ Globalization and response to financial/ KRW (revenue, taxes, etc.) economic crises •Investment Banking ❻ ❺ Social responsibility regarding Department financial liabilities •Card Business Enhanced financial/ economic educations Sales of public welfare Department •Smart products Channel Department •Product Development Office Business Impact Strategic Direction KRW Customer ❷ Increasing socially responsible investment practices ❸ SME support programs Value Creation 197,925 million ❶ Globalization and response to financial/ ❺ Social responsibility regarding financial liabilities Recipients of financial/ Sustainable economic crises ❻ Enhanced financial/economic educations economic education classes Performance ❹ Economic performance (revenue, taxes, etc.) Creation Key Performance Indicators Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Deposits market share in Daegu/ 34.8 35.1 36.2 37.0 Gyeongbuk 10,650persons Loans market share in Daegu/ 29.4 29.4 29.0 30.0 Gyeongbuk SME Loans/Ratio (KRW in billions/%) KRW 11,582.4 KRW 13,404.7 KRW 15,300.9 KRW 17,200.9 billion/62.4% billion/61% billion/63% billion/64% SRI product sales volume (KRW million) KRW 9,620 million KRW 11,807 million KRW 7,790 million KRW 11,000 million BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 15.33 15.57 15.06 12.55 Customer Satisfaction (points) 92 93 94 94 FSS Civil Complaint Assessment Ratings Grade 1 Grade 1 Grade 1 Grade 1 54 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Sustainable Finance _ Sustainable Finance Customer Value Creation CONTEXT & CHALLENGES While contributing to social value through its financial services, DGB Financial Group also strives to enhance its financial and nonfinancial value. DGB’s growth model for sustainable financing is developing and providing compassionate financing for the development of local communities and welfare of local residents. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group provides a number of financial products designed for mutual prosperity with local communities, while also offering diverse products for under-banked small business owners and low-credit individuals. OUR PROGRESS Micro-Finance Mortgage Loan Pre-Workout Daegu Bank initiated a mortgage loan pre-workout on its own in March 2013 in order to help financially-distressed borrowers suffering from high interest rates and sagging housing prices. In a bid to alleviate customer financial burden, the bank extended the grace period, maturity and lump-sum redemption dues of installment repayment SME Loans Amount loans. Industry-low Interest Rates on SME Competence-building Fund Daegu Bank offered the industry-low interest rate of 3.5 percent on the Gyeongsangbuk-Do Business Start-up and Competence-Building Loans for the development of the local economy and SME competitiveness from January 2014. Bearing the lower margin, the bank determined an additional cut in interest rates in a bid to stimulate business startKRW 15.3trillion up and investments and create jobs in the Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do region. SME Extended to SMEs 17.2 SME Loans Amount 13.4 15.3 11.6 (KRW in trillions) 64.0% 62.4% 61.0% 63.0% SME Loan Ratio 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Stakeholder Interview Financial institutions thrive on regional economies. I think it is important that DGB remains unswayed by external fluctuations and steadfast to its business philosophy in its business planning and implementation. At the same time, it would be better if it can actively engage in activities to promote local economies, small businesses and traditional markets, thus contributing to the development of the regional economy. Joon-woo Kim, secretary general of the Nakdong River Forest for Life SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 55 Microfinance Loans (As of the end of December 2013) Total Support Amount Products Total Account Number (KRW in billions) Special Loans for Liquidity Support to Self-Employed 8,223 118.2 DGB Hope Sharing Special Loans 647 224.6 DGB Love Sharing Household Loans 3,001 223.8 DGB Seed for Hope Loans 1,504 9.6 DGB New Seed for Hope Loans 21,264 171.0 Special Guarantee Loans for Underbanked Self-Employed 2,224 22.5 DGB Smart Biz Loans 490 175.2 DGB Conversion Loans 1,396 13.9 DGB Hopeful Days Loans 682 7.0 Special Guarantee Loans for Alley Shop Owners 1,376 23.5 DGB Dream Loans for Young People 53 2.8 DGB Conversion Loans for Young People and University Students 115 0.8 DGB Hope Nurturing Special Guarantee Loans 61 1.9 DGB Conversion Loans for Small Business Owners 276 2.9 Special Guarantee Loans for SMEs and Small Business Owners in Gyeongbuk 471 11.1 DGB GREEN LOAN 29 6.6 Socially InnoBiz CSR Credit Cards Responsible In April 2014, Daegu Bank signed a business alliance agreement with InnoBiz Association regarding the issuance Finance of CSR cards in a bid to promote CSR awareness among InnoBiz members in the Daegu-Gyeongbuk region. Under the alliance, InnoBiz member companies are encouraged to replace their corporate credit cards with the CSR card, allowing them to donate to social contribution funds in proportion with their card use. The funds will be donated to local social causes twice a year. Subcontractor Protection Account Service Launched Daegu Bank entered into a business alliance with the Public Procurement Service (PPS) in 2013 to promote fair subcontracting practices in December 2013. Under the agreement, the bank launched the Subcontractor Protection Account Service. The service is dedicated to facilitating subcontractor management, such as settling bills for material, equipment and outsourcing services. The new service is expected to contribute to fairer and more efficient subcontracting practices, from contracting and track recording, to payment settling. Campaign to Find Owners of Dormant Trust Accounts In a bid to protect the rights of financial consumers, Daegu Bank has been jointly conducting the Campaign to Find Owners of Dormant Trust Accounts with the FSS since 2011. In 2013, the bank returned KRW 1,789,230,000 to the owners of 1,026 accounts. From 2011 up to the first quarter of 2014, a total of KRW 3,599,727,000 was returned to the rightful holders of 3,194 accounts, thus promoting the rights of financial consumers. Campaign Performance Results Category 2011 2012 2013 1Q 2014 Fixed Dividend Trust (A) Principal Preservation Trust (B) 18 accounts 2,031 accounts 1,026 accounts 119 accounts Merit Allocation Trust (C) 3,356 (KRW 1,000) 1,475,364 (KRW 1,000) 1,789,230 (KRW 1,000) 331,787 (KRW 1,000) Total Unspecified Trust Cash Fund (A)+(B)+(C) 56 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SRI Fund Sales To fulfill its social responsibility through financial products, Daegu Bank has been offering a variety of socially responsible investment (SRI) funds. For instance, the ‘Woori Frontier Sustainable Business SRI Equity Fund’ contributes 10 percent of sales and operating profits to a public service fund, while the ‘Mirae Asset Love Sharing ETF Equity Investment Trust’ donates 0.5 percent of sales and front-end commissions. The bank donated KRW 27 million of funds raised from the Love Sharing account in 2013. All donations made through the account are managed individually, with donors benefitting from year-end tax exemptions. These products are highly recognized for promoting donation practices among the public. Public Service Fund Products (as of the end of March 2014) DGB AUM (KRW in millions) Rate of Return (%) SRI Fund Initial Balance 3 months 6 months 1 year Woori Frontier Sustainable Business SRI Equity Investment 21,215 2,530 -0.07 -6.09 1.4 Trust Midas Responsible Investment Equity Investment Trust 1,157 448 3.62 -1.02 6.13 Mirae Asset Green Growth Equity Investment Trust 2,621 1,907 4.47 7.96 0.03 Mirae Asset Love Sharing ETF Equlity Investment Trust 4,316 4,075 3.21 -0.92 7.96 Public funds for socially Contributions to the SRI Public Service Fund responsible investment 구분 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Service Fund (KRW 1,000) 17,000 26,000 27,000 30,000 Deposit Products (Jan. 2013 – Mar. 2014) (Unit: KRW million) KRW 27million Product Description Sales Amount A product that offers prime interest rate to customers that receive birth grant and/or Children Love Savings 16 child support aid DGB National Pension Safety A special product for the National Pension deposits that is exempt from seizure 104 Deposit Account A special unlimited deposit and withdrawal account offering fee-exemption to Young Plus Account 13,596 university students I Zoa (Child Love) Deposit Unlimited deposit and withdrawal account for families with more than two children 980 Account A savings deposit that offers prime interest rate to families with more than two I Zoa (Child Love) Savings 59 children A product that offers prime interest rate to customers who receive child support aid Child Love Savings 78 through business alliance with local governments DGB Property Accumulation A product that offers prime interest rates and tax benefits for office workers and 62,800 Savings business owners in accordance with the special tax treatment control law Preferential Installment Savings A tailored savings deposit that offers preferential interest rates to soldiers 98 for Soldiers An unlimited deposit withdrawal account specifically for living expense deposits that Living Expense Deposit Account 78,838 offer fee-exemption and alliance discount benefits DGB Fixed-rate Property A product that offers prime interest rates and tax benefits for office workers and 747 Accumulation Savings business owners in accordance with the special tax treatment control law A product linked with sports that offers additional interest rates in tandem with the Samsung Lions Victory Deposit 22,221 season records of local baseball team Samsung Lions Victory Savings A product linked with sports that offer additional interest rates in tandem with the 3,770 Deposit season records of local baseball team A public service product that offers prime interest rates to accountholders who Dokdo Deposit attend education sessions about Dokdo and have visited the islet, and contributes 1 53,234 percent of interest paid after tax to Dokdo Fund A public service product that offers prime interest rates to accountholders who Dokdo Deposit attend education sessions about Dokdo and have visited the islet, and contributes 1 13,232 percent of the interests paid after tax to Dokdo Fund SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 57 DGB Free Installment Savings A free installment savings deposit coming with benefits of preferential rates in 54,207 Deposit proportion to the transaction records A special unlimited deposit and withdrawal account exclusively offering fee-exempt Dream Tree Plus Deposit 667 to the underaged DGB Happy Partner Deposit A time deposit that pays the principal and interest on installment like an annuity 4,524 An unlimited deposit and withdrawal account offering free-exempt to self-employed, Biz-Starter Preferential Deposit 37,581 corporate, or an organization who have Certificate of Business Registration A product that offers prime interest rates to business owners, corporations, and New Business Owner Prime Rate organizations with business registration certificates according to their transaction 513 Deposit records with the bank A product that offers prime interest rates to business owners, corporations, and New Business Owner Prime Rate organizations with business registration certificates according to their transaction 43 Savings records with the bank A high-interest rate installment savings designed to help the underprivileged stand DGB Plus Hope Savings 537 on their own feet Exemplary Taxpayer Deposits and An exclusive product for exemplary taxpayers and excellent tax paying enterprises 262 Savings A product linked with sports that offers additional interest rates in tandem with the 2014 Power Samsung Deposit 795 season record of local based baseball team A product linked with sports that offers additional interest rates in tandem with the 2014 Power Samsung Savings 39 season record of local based baseball team Loan Products (Jan. 2013 – Mar. 2014) (Unit: KRW in millions) Product Description Sales Amount DGB PRIDE LOAN Preferential credit lines and interest rates to regional SMEs and household borrowers 1,590,284 Hwasin Win-Win Partnership A win-win partnership financing to a regional large corporation and its SMEs with 3,500 Loan good credit records BOK’s Aggregate Credit Ceiling System for Technology-driven Financing technology-competitive new SMEs at low interest rates 26,705 Business Start-ups DGB Preferential Loans to Preferential credit lines and interest rates to regional SME manufacturers 302,352 Manufacturers Preferential credit lines and interest rates to regional InnoBiz certified SMEs with INNOBIZ LOAN 9,280 competitive technologies DGB Garion Special Loan Preferential credit lines and interest rates to regional SMEs and household borrowers 267,409 Preferential credit lines and interest rates to SMEs located in Busan, Ulsan and DGB Greenbe Special Loan 22,164 Gyeongsangnam-do region R&D SME Financing Loans Enhanced financing to regional SMEs and household borrowers 49,456 Public Service Tailored Products (Unit: KRW in millions) Sales of public welfare Product Description No. of Accounts Sales Amount products A loan product for under-banked individuals to protect them DGB Seed for New Hope Loan 21,109 169,678 from usurers DGB Didimdol Soho (selfAn exclusive loan offered to low-income self-employed 559 2,781 employeed support) loan business owners A conversion loan for borrowers to alleviate high interest DGB Conversion Loan 1,389 13,831 burdens of more than 20 percent per annum KRW A credit loan for small business owners with a daily DGB Hopeful Days Loan 679 6,991 amortization schedule 197,925 DGB Conversion Loan for Small Business Owners A conversion loan for small business owners that offer protection from loan sharks 275 2,884 million DGB Conversion Loan for Young A conversion loan for young people and university students 115 777 People and University Students that offer protection from loan sharks A loan product for emergency liquidity assistance to small Disaster Damage Loan 37 982 business owners affected by disasters 58 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Sustainable Finance _ Sustainable Finance Sustainable Performance Creation CONTEXT & CHALLENGES DGB Financial Group’s sustainable growth and revenue stream can economically benefit its employees, investors, business partners and local communities. Furthermore, its sustainable performance results can have a significant impact on its own business expansion, organizational restructuring and reinvestment in local communities. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group strives to provide globally competitive financial services through group-wide synergies. By preemptively managing risks, the Group timely responds to the fluctuating financial market, as well as developing new products and making socially responsible investments. OUR PROGRESS Preparing for Spurring Group-wide Synergies Globalization and Leveraging synergy with its subsidiaries, DGB Financial Group has been striving to provide unique products that meet Financial Crisis global standards. The Group’s Synergy Promotion Department arranges cross-selling between Daegu Bank and DGB Capital, as well as joint marketing between Daegu Bank and U-Payment for a transport card and other promotions. Change Innovation Promotion Group Daegu Bank embraces change and innovation, preemptively responding to the changing financial environment and generating new growth engines. To that end, the Change Innovation Promotion Group was created under the supervision of a Divisional Director. Furthermore, the 2014 management goal for change innovation was set as ‘powerful marketing, ethical management and a solid bank’, along with three key tasks of ‘cheer-up, go back to basics, and embrace change’, as well as the slogan, ‘changes starts with me! Innovation begins with practice’. Co-Sponsor of the Daegu/Gyeongbuk Financial/Economic Condition Review Council Meeting In August 2013, Daegu Bank held the 2nd Daegu/Gyeongbuk Financial/Economic Condition Review Council meeting. The meeting allowed related organizations to exchange information and review the region’s financial and economic conditions in order to deliberate on countermeasures to meet diverse risk factors. Participants included Daegu Bank, Daegu City, Gyeongsangbuk-do, The Bank of Korea Daegu-Gyeongbuk Regional Headquarters, the Financial Supervisory Service’s Daegu Branch, the Daegu Chamber of Commerce and Industries, and the Gyeongbuk Chamber of Commerce and Industries. The main agenda of such meetings is to review and give an outlook on the region’s economy, financial support plans and performances regarding local SMEs, company complaints and local residents’ complaints related to financial services. MOU signed with Qingdao Bank and Ningbo Bank Daegu Bank signed an MOU with Qingdao Bank and Ningbo Bank in June 2013 regarding financial alliance and mutual cooperation, including credit lines and foreign exchange transactions. The agreement will pave the way for Daegu Bank to expand into Shanghai and other major Chinese cities, as well as induce foreign investment from China. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 59 Daegu Bank’s Shanghai Branch Daegu Bank became the first Korean regional bank to open a branch in Shanghai in December 2012. Our ardent staff and competitive financial services have won the hearts and minds of local customers. As a result, the branch had accumulated total assets of USD 100 million as of November 2013. Having introduced a computer system designed to enhance efficiency in its international financing services, Daegu Bank is actively expanding its presence in the market based on a network of Korean companies operating in China and its human network with local communities. Global F/X ATM Starting September 2013, Daegu Bank operates global F/X ATMs at its branches in Korea, allowing customers to exchange currencies or overseas remittance using their debit cards or bankbooks, thus eliminating the need to wait in line in branches. As part of a promotion, the service comes with a 30 percent discount on foreign exchange fees and an exemption from the overseas remittance commission. Social Fostering Professional Financial Instructors Responsibility To meet the growing demand for financial & economic classes in local communities, Daegu Bank trains 30 to Financial professional instructors in youth financial education and investment techniques, who then give financial/economic lectures at local business partners, schools, government offices and welfare centers. The instructors continue to Liabilities improve their knowledge by participating in special training courses. In 2013, a total of 122 classes were attended by 10,650 participants. Recipients of financial/ Financial/Economic Education economic education classes Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of sessions 113 159 122 130 No. of trainees 6,251 9,174 10,650 11,000 Prime Loans for Manufacturers 10,650persons Daegu Bank launched the Prime Loans for Manufacturers in July 2013, in order to solidify further growth and in response to the government’s SME support policy. With credit lines set at KRW 300 billion, a single borrower can take out loans totaling up to KRW 5 billion with advantageous interest rates. As a result, the burden placed on regional companies has eased, thus contributing to their increased competitiveness. Condonation of Delay Penalties for Delinquent Short-term Member Loans From April to June 2014, Daegu Bank announced the “Condonation of Penalties for Delinquent Short-term Member Loans” in an effort to shoulder customers’ financial burdens. For delinquent borrowers less than 3 months behind in their payments for the first time in 2014, the bank wrote off all delay penalties and charged only the original interest on the condition that all dues were paid back in full by the end of June. 60 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2013 Major Achievements Love & Local Community Share Involvement Social contribution expenses ratio to net income & Development Committed to the development of local communities, DGB Financial Group actively participates in community engagement programs so as to serve society as a reliable and respected financial partner. Sustainability Management Organization Material Issues 9.0% Sustainability Management Working Council DGB Volunteer Corps Ethics & Corporate enrollment rate Culture Council Stakeholder Concerns DGB Data Daegu Credit Daegu Bank DGB Capital U-Payment System Information Indirect economic benefits •Social •Business •Business •Service •Business (regional development projects/ Contribution Strategy Support Operation Support investment projects) Department Division Team Department Department ❶ •Business (Strategy ❷ Contribution to the development of local education ❸ and culture 93.1% Strategy Planning ❹ Contribution to the development Department Department) Addressing the of the local environment and sports increase in youth •Public Relation unemployment and Department non-regular jobs •Deposit Marketing Planning Department No. of volunteers Business Impact Strategic Direction Contribution ❶ Indirect economic benefits (regional ❹ Increased youth unemployment and to the development 22,001people development projects/investment projects) non-regular jobs of the local economy ❷ Contribution to the development of local ❸C  ontribution to the development of the Giving back education and culture local environment and sports to society Key Performance Indicators Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Rate of social contributions to net 7.8 8.3 9.0 9.0 income (%) DGB Volunteer Corps enrollment rate (%) 96.3 96.5 93.1 93.8 No. of volunteers (persons) 22,198 21,578 22,001 23,000 No. of jobs created (new banker 177 179 176 150 recruitment) (persons) Beneficiaries of business consulting 82 63 67 70 service (companies) Daegu Bank labor union’s social 260 217 233 230 contribution expenses (KRW in millions) Scholarship Culture Foundation’s KRW 453 million KRW 447 million KRW 428 million KRW 448 million scholarship contributions (213 persons) (213 persons) (213 persons) (215 persons) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 61 Local Community Involvement & Development _ Love & Share Contribution to the Development of Local Economies CONTEXT & CHALLENGES The regional economy recently showed signs of recovery thanks to the booming machinery & automobile components industries and recovering housing prices, yet per capital gross regional domestic product (GRDP) still remains bottom among local governments. Growth in the productivity of regional businesses and job creation are critical to the growth of DGB Financial Group. Therefore, the Group commits its resources and energies to promoting the local economy and its self-sufficiency as a compassionate, regional financial service provider. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group engages in a number of mutual win-win partnership activities through such programs as the Group synergy promotion initiative, SME support and prime loans for technology-driven ventures, as well as business consulting services. Additionally, the Group increased the recruitment of new bankers, runs a University Student Supporters’ Group and Green Press Corps, as well as internships for university students in a bid to address youth unemployment and the growing trend for non-regular jobs. OUR PROGRESS Community Quarterly Regional Industry Forecast Model and Economic Forecast Engagement The DGB Economic Research Institute completed a regional industry forecast model in 2014, and released its economic forecast for 14 industries and the regional economy of Daegu and Gyeongbuk for the second quarter of Programs the year. The Institute will continue upgrading its forecast model in order to support regional companies, keep up with market trends and measure and prepare for potential short-term risks based on its economic outlook on the region’s economy and industry. CEO Forum In partnership with the regional Chamber of Commerce and Industries, DGB Financial Group holds annual CEO Forums in Daegu, Gimcheon, Gumi and Pohang in order to stimulate the regional economy and strengthen the competitiveness of regional companies. Inviting prominent instructors from fields such as business management and finance, the Forum provides participants with up-to-date information and knowledge, as well as a venue for CEOs from various areas to exchange information and opinions. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Education Daegu Bank provides free customer satisfaction education to various regional organizations, including companies, public organizations, hospitals, military and universities. With the aim of promoting a CS mind-set among regional institutions, the classes look at promoting a customer-oriented mindset, service call etiquette, image-making skills, business manners, customer complaint response tips, work ethics and communication skills. In 2013, a total of 3,253 people from 42 organizations attended the classes. Since the launch of the program in 2010, the bank has hosted CS sessions at a total of 178 institutions, significantly helping them reinforce their competitiveness. CS education sessions CS Education Performance Program 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Visiting lectures (sessions) 136 173 177 37 In-house Off-the-job education (sessions) 11 20 28 8 247sessions Outside Outside educational courses (sessions) (No. of trainees (persons)) 33 (2,153) 50 (8,864) 42 (3,253) 6 (841) 62 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Pre-Workout for Self-Employed In alliance with the Daegu Credit Guarantee Foundation and Gyeongbuk Credit Guarantee Foundation, Daegu Bank held a signing ceremony for the ‘Happy Dream Agreement on the Pre-Workout for Self-Employed’ program in April 2013. In fulfillment of the bank’s social responsibilities, the program is designed to support self-employed customers who are facing difficulties paying back their debts due to temporary financial problems by offering debt restructuring and credit recovery schemes. SME Support Business Consulting Services to Regional Companies Program Since 2005, Daegu Bank has been providing local companies with various consulting services, such as strategybuilding, human resources management, organizational structure, finance/accounting, marketing and quality control. For example, the bank helped regional companies advance into new growth engine areas through technology transfer and commercialization in collaboration with the Daegu Research & Development Special District and Daegu Techno Park. It also provides free business consulting to 30 social enterprises and community businesses in order to help them reinforce their competitiveness and management innovation. No. of beneficiaries of its business consulting services 82 63 67 60 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Prime Rate F/X Fees for Yen-denominated Borrowers In a bid to alleviate financial expenses and foreign exchange risks arising from the fluctuating foreign exchange, Daegu Bank introduced a prime F/X fee service for yen-denominated SME borrowers in 2013. The beneficiaries of the service include ordinary borrowers and those on a special agreement for currency exchange, offering financial benefits to the SME borrowers wanting to convert their yen-denominated loans to won-denominated loans amid the appreciating Yen. Emergency Loans to Households and Self-Employed Suffering Heavy Snow Damage Daegu Bank offered emergency restoration loans to households and the self-employed who suffered damage as a result of the large snowfall in North Gyeongbuk and East coast areas in February 2014. It was an expansion of the existing Disaster Relive Loans for Businesses to include households as beneficiaries. When proven to have suffered damage due to a disaster, applicants can receive up to KRW 20 million per case and/or up to KRW 50 million per person in working capital or living security funds. When taking unsecured loans, the bank offers up to a 1.0 percentage point cut in interest rate. Stakeholder Interview Daegu/Gyeongbuk region’s businesses are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), who account for 99 percent of all businesses operating in the region. Therefore, it is imperative that DGB stimulates the creative activities of SMEs and listens to the demands of local communities for mutual growth in the practice of its business ethics and to maximize profits. Tae-mun Suk, Chief researcher at Daegu-Gyeongbuk Research Institute SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 63 Job Creation and Continuous Recruitment of New Employees Internships Despite the challenging financial market environment and economic recession, Daegu Bank continues to recruit new employees in a bid to stimulate regional youth employment and create jobs. Its recruitment procedures focus on the personality and adaptability of applicants, regardless of academic background or age. In particular, the bank dropped TOEIC scores from its application requirements, thus broadening opportunities for applicants. In 2013, a total of 176 new employees were hired. As being a regional bank, Daegu Bank gives advantages to local residents applying. All of its high school graduate new employees were from the region, while 90 percent of university graduate new employees were either born in or living in the Daegu and Gyeongbuk area. New banker recruitment 179 177 176 2011 2012 2013 University Student Supporters Group and Green Press Corps DGB Financial Group provides local university students with opportunities to experience society through its University Student Supporters Group and Green Press Corps. The fifth DGB University Student Supporters Group was launched in April 2014 to enhance public recognition of the bank as a responsible and energetic bank and promote its brand value through various social contribution activities. The Green Press Corps reports DGB Financial Group’s environmental activities to local communities and raises public awareness of environmental issues such as climate change. Internship Programs for University Students In conjunction with the Youth Job Experience Program organized by the Ministry of Labor, DGB Financial Group has been operating the ‘Job Experience Program for University Students’ since 2007. The program offers local university students with opportunities to gain hands-on experience of working at a bank, as well as a chance to explore career paths and develop work experience. 64 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Local Community Involvement & Development _ Love & Share Sharing with Local Communities CONTEXT & CHALLENGES In supporting socially vulnerable groups, such as the underprivileged through reinvestment and donations, DGB Financial Group strives to return part of its business gains to local communities. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group engages in diverse community engagement programs, such as those that provide assistance to minority groups. The Group also sponsors various educational, cultural, artistic and sports activities in the region for local residents. OUR PROGRESS Supporting Socially DGB Home Repair Campaign Vulnerable and DGB Social Contribution Foundation visited multi-family households in Daegu in May 2014. The volunteers repaired Underprivileged windows, ceilings, wallpaper and exterior walls, as well as donated various living necessities, such as mats, rice and noodles. Also in 2014, the DGB Volunteer Corps aims to repair an additional 15 houses of underprivileged families Groups through the Community Chest of Daegu. Free Glasses for Multi-cultural Families In partnership with the Department of Ophthalmic Optics of Daegu Health College, DGB Social Contribution Foundation donated glasses to 130 multi-cultural families in Daegu in May 2014. Marking its second event since 2013, the campaign aims to assist visually-challenged multi-cultural families by providing them with lenses and frames, as well as free eyesight tests. With-You Health Check-up Service for Children Living with Grandparents DGB Social Contribution Foundation has been supporting a health check-up service for children and teenagers living with their grandparents in the Daegu and Gyeongbuk region since 2012. As part of the DGB Total Care Program for the Children Living with Grandparents, the health check-up service was conducted with the help of Semyeong Hospital and Hyoseong Hospital. The recipients received a check-up covering 24 health conditions, including nutritional balance, kidney function and blood sugar level. DGB University Student Supporters Group Donates Audio books DGB University Student Supporters Group visited the Daegu Welfare Center for the Visually-Impaired and the Braille Library of Daegu University and donated audio books they themselves had produced. The books, featuring warmhearted stories, were recorded voluntarily by six members of the group. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 65 Sponsoring Hosted the 1st Korean Classic Song Festival Educational/ DGB Financial Group hosted the first Korean Classic Song Festival in alliance with Keimyung University in order to Cultural/Artistic/ revitalize beautiful Korean classic songs that had been relatively neglected and create a venue for local residents to gather and enjoy the music. Featuring world famous Korean singers, choirs, and the Daegu International Opera Sports Programs Orchestra, the festival also featured an amateur song contest, music/poetry concert, and academic forums, with the festival garnering good responses from local residents. Held the 3rd DGB Dokdo Love Golden Bell Quiz Show Daegu Bank held the 3rd DGB Dokdo Love Golden Bell Quiz Show in Daegu Civic Gymnasium in August 2013. With the aim of reminding people of the significance of Dokdo and historic awareness, the contest featured 500 student participants and 600 of their supporters from high schools in the Daegu and Gyeongbuk region. The questions focused mainly on Dokdo, Korean history, and regional traditions, as well as basic financial/economic knowledge. The winners were rewarded with scholarships and tickets to visit Dokdo. Held 2013 Anti-Terrorism Drill Photograph Exhibition In commemoration of the Anti-Terrorism Drill, Daegu Bank held a photograph exhibition on the subject in the lobby of its main office building in August 2013. Sponsored by the Daegu Branch of the Korea War Dead Soldiers and Policemen Bereaved Family Association (KWBFA), approximately 60 photos were exhibited to remind younger generations of the brutality of the 1950 Korean War. Sponsoring Athletic Competition for International Workers Daegu Bank participated in the “International Workers Athletic Competition” hosted by the Daegu Support Center for Foreign Workers in September 2013;helping international workers with financial transactions and providing free giveaways. Approximately 1,000 international workers from 12 countries, including China and Indonesia, attended the event, which featured talent shows and athletic competitions. The bank assisted participants with various financial services, such as opening bank accounts and sending overseas remittance, as well as provided prizes for the events. The bank also offered privileged benefits and quick and convenient financial services to international workers and multi-cultural families through the Ae-in Marketing in 2013. Scholarship Culture Foundation Scholarship Granted (persons/KRW in millions) high school students university students 116persons / KRW177million 97persons / KRW251million 66 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DGB Financial DGB Financial Group Launches Emergency Disaster Relief Corps Group Volunteer DGB Financial Group launched the Disaster First Aid Corps in March 2014 in order to extend a helping hand to Corps damaged areas promptly and efficiently. The Corps consists of 40 members who will provide aid to any local areas suffering damage from natural disasters such as flooding, typhoons, heavy snow, and mountain fires. To that end, all Corps members have received systematic training by the Korea Red Cross on how to respond in the event of a disaster. DGB Labor Union’s Social Contribution Activities Daegu Bank Labor Union attended the 7th Santa Crew launching ceremony by the Green Umbrella Children’s Foundation in December 2013, and donated KRW 46 million to help the children of low-income families. The Union has sponsored the event every year since its launch in 2007. The money donated is used to purchase gifts and heating fuel for 650 local children, including those from local community childcare centers and low-income families. Daegu Bank’s Social Contribution Activities in 2013 Category Program Contribution (KRW million) Volunteers (persons) •DGB Volunteer Corps operational expenses Local communities/ •Sharing Kimchi and Coal Briquettes 10,166 13,250 public welfare •Photo-shoot for elderly citizens •DGB Scholarship Foundation operational Academic/education expenses 2,855 299 •DGB Dokdo Love Golden Bell Quiz Show •Sponsoring lighthouse operations on Dokdo Islet Environment 15 6,400 •Patronage of Citizens Meeting for Green Daegu Planting •Sponsorship of Les Miserable musical •Sponsorship of New Year’s First Sunrise Event Culture/Sports/Art by Munkyeong City 5,296 2,052 •Kusama Yayoi Works Exhibition No. of volunteers •Participation in Daegu International Marathon •Overseas medical services in Cambodia •Hands-on foreign cultural experience (Child Global Social Fund) 40 Contribution •Sponsorship of International Worker Cultural Festival Microcredit •Sponsorship of Healing Fund for Hope 3,529 22,001 people Total 21,901 22,001 DGB Labor Union’s social contribution activities Description 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Helping children with incurable diseases, 260 217 233 230 sponsoring children from low-income families Stakeholder Interview I think Daegu Bank can realize sustainable growth when it keeps its eye on the development of social issues, such as low birth-rate, aging society, non-regular jobs and youth unemployment and seeks ways for mutual prosperity. The bank also needs to pay attention to underprivileged children and multicultural families, seeking cooperation with public organizations in order to help create a healthier and happier society for all. Sang-im Cho, head of Bluebird Dream Community Childcare Center SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 67 DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Green Environmental Management 2013 Major Achievements Initiative DGB Financial Group is strengthening its competencies in carbon management and creating a new business model that will enable it to lead the way as an eco-friendly Green financial products sales financial group. Sustainability Management Organization Material Issues Sustainability Management KRW 157.2billion Working Council Environmental Application rate of Management Council environmental management checklist Stakeholder Concerns DGB Data Daegu Credit Daegu Bank DGB Capital U-Payment System Information •General •Business •Business •Service •Business Affairs Strategy Support Operation Support Department Division Team Department Department •Social (Strategy ❶ Minimizing any negative impact on local communities ❷ Contribution Planning Increasing number of consumers holding serious views on health, eco-friendliness and social values Department Department) •IT Planning Department ❸ Resource and material consumption* •IT Operation Department Business Impact 95.4% CO2 reduction benefits of Strategic Direction Green Touch programs Green ❷ Increasing number of consumers holding serious views on health, eco-friendliness and social values Financing ❶ Minimizing any negative impact on local communities Addressing Climate Change 14.9tons GHG emissions declined Environmental ❸ Resource and material consumption* Management Performance Key Performance Indicators 8.0% (compared to 2010) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2) (tCO2) 34,326 30,152 30,147 30,100 Water Use Amount (m3) 119,266 108,626 174,518 173,500 Paper Use Amount (tons) 116.3 110.3 119.3 118.0 Percentage of e-mail billing (%) 17.4 24.1 27.2 28.0 68 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Environmental Management _ Green Initiative Green Finance CONTEXT & CHALLENGES In step with growing global concerns regarding environmental issues, DGB Financial Group, like many leading domestic and international financial institutions, are making efforts to foster green companies and develop green products and technologies. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group is developing a number of green financial products and operating environmentally-specialized stores, while also continuing efforts to spread green management practices through its entire supply chain. OUR PROGRESS Green Financial Products Daegu Bank lends its financial acumen to addressing climate change and minimizing any environmental impact through its green financial products. The bank is consistently introducing green products in the areas of deposits, loans, funds and credit card products in order to raise local awareness of green financing. Green Financial products sales Green financial products sales 2013 2014 (Plan) Category No. of Total Amount No. of Total Amount accounts (KRW in millions) accounts (KRW in millions) Eco-friendly Green Installment 13,526 77,485 751 4,252 Savings Green Health Installment Installment Savings 1,319 4,829 1,166 4,644 Savings KRW 157.2billion e-Convenient Installment Savings 3,725 10,185 4,302 12,437 Financial Technique Eco-friendly Green Deposits 786 10,496 230 2,494 Deposits e-Convenient Time Savings 5,273 53,512 5,230 58,454 KB Global Warming Thematic 166 578 171 611 Trust Investment-Type A Offshore Funds Global Warming Thematic 34 167 34 171 Trust Investment-Type C Stakeholder Interview Daegu Bank has grown into Daegu’s ‘our bank’, one that is trusted and supported by Daegu citizens. I hope the bank can continue its efforts to build competencies that will make it a competitive global financial institution. Cheol-soo, Jung (Chegim Tech Tool) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 69 DGB Cyber Green Branch In 2010, Daegu Bank became the first Korean bank to open an Internet-based, environmentally-friendly branch designed to promote green financing in Korea. The branch only offers green financial products covering deposits, loans, funds and credit card products, and donates a percentage of the profits to supporting regional environmental preservation activities. DGB Cyber Green Branch Sales No. of accounts sold (accounts) 2,099 2,250 1,569 1,665 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Total Value (KRW in millions) 2,716 2,294 2,071 2,300 2011 2012 2013 2014 (plan) Promoting Green Management Practices Daegu Bank has been evaluating the environmental management practices of its partner companies by means of the Treasury Credit Risk Management System (TCRMS) since 2006. Designed to promote green businesses and environmental negative screening, the evaluation uses the credit rating system to review business loans and Application rate of rewards those with high scores with various benefits. The checklist was applied to a total of 13,992 companies in environmental management checklist 2013, accounting for 95.35 percent of the companies that applied for loans. The bank plans to further expand the evaluation in the future. Companies Applicable to Environmental Management Checklist Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of checklist-applied companies (companies) 11,223 12,388 13,992 15,391 No. of checklist-exempt companies (companies) 174 115 682 730 95.4 % Rate of checklist-applied companies (%) 98.47 99.08 95.35 95.47 70 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Environmental Management _ Green Initiative Addressing Climate Change CONTEXT & CHALLENGES Climate change stemming from global warming has become an ongoing controversy in the global community. Climate change poses risks, both financial and regulatory, to businesses around the world, yet also poses as an opportunity for those ready with differentiated business practices. OUR APPROACH At DGB Financial Group, we engage in diverse activities under the notion that environmental consciousness and the behavioral change of present and future generations are imperative to addressing climate change. OUR PROGRESS Fighting 5th DGB Anti-Desertification Forest Project in Mongolia Desertification DGB Financial Group held the 5th DGB Anti-Desertification Forest event in Mungun Morit, Mongolia in June 2013. Present at the event were approximately 100 people, including the governor of Mungun Morit and local residents and DGB Financial Group employees, with participants planting 3,000 trees on a site spanning 3 ha. Most of the trees planted during the event were Sea Buckthorn, a tree that can contribute to the earnings of local residents. The bank also delivered scholarships four local students aiming to become forestry experts as part of the company’s efforts to fight desertification in the region. In 2013, the Group received an appreciation plaque from the Tuv Aimag governor of Mongolia for its contribution to fighting desertification over the past five years. DGB Anti-Desertification Forest Project in Mongolia Type 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 No. of Trees Planted (trees) 60,000 60,000 60,000 2,100 3,000 Beginning 2012, all trees planted were Sea Buckthorn so as to provide financial assistance to local residents. Anti-Desertification White Paper In April 2014, DGB Financial Group published the Mongolian Anti-Desertification White Paper; a report on its fiveyear performance in fighting desertification in Mongolia from 2009 to 2013. The publication provided the Group with an opportunity to look back on its performance and think about future directions. Protecting Sponsoring Visits to Dokdo Biodiversity Since 2001, Daegu Bank has sponsored 30 people to visit Dokdo and participated in various environmental preservation activities. In June 2014, the 13th event was held, with participants consisting of customers of DGB’s green branch and Dokdo Care Golden Bell Quiz Show winners. During the visit, participants weeded the Seom-mal Nari hill and donated 500 Giant Abalones, an indigenous species of Dokdo, that were bred at the Gyeongbuk Fishery Resources Development Institute. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 71 Green Education The 5th NIE Energy Diary Contest Awarding Ceremony Programs DGB Financial Group hosted the 5th NIE Energy Diary Contest awards ceremony in November 2013. Co-hosted by the Group and Doctor Ahn’s Institute for Nature Care, and co-sponsored by the Ministry of Environment, the Daegu Office of Education and the Korea Standards Association, the contest selected 34 prize-winners from 1,200 applicants. No. of Participants and Award-winners at NIE Energy Diary Contest Category 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th No. of applicants 2,510 3,200 3,500 3,750 2,200 No. of prize-winners 62 55 53 68 34 The 5th DGB University Student Green Press Corps DGB Financial Group has been operating the DGB Green Press Corps, comprised of local university students, since 2010. The Corps promotes various environmental programs in order to raise public awareness via social media. They also provide environmental education to local students and community childcare centers so as to awaken our future generations to the importance of actively addressing environmental issues such as climate change. DGB Green Press Corps Performance (sessions) Participation Completing Distribution Educational Promotion of Environmental in Regional Type Environmental of Green Classes at Local Branches Clean-up Environmental Trainings Products Schools Events 1st Corps (7 persons) 3 2 1 1 1 2 nd 2 Corps (8 persons) 3 1 1 1 2 1 3rd Corps (8 persons) 3 2 1 1 2 1 4th Corps (8 persons) 3 2 1 2 2 0 5th Corps (8 persons) 3 2 (plan) 1 1 2 2 (plan) Raising Public Participation in the 2013 Korea Climate & Environment Network National Convention Environmental Awareness DGB Financial Group attended the 2013 Korea Climate & Environment Network National Convention held at the Daegu Exco Exhibition Hall from November 15 to 16, 2013, at which it operated a pavilion promoting its environmental activities. Celebrating its fourth anniversary, the event is a nationwide festival for environmentalists in Korea determined to preserve our green planet by encouraging national practices to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. On-street Campaign Wishing the Success of the 2013 Daegu World Energy Congress In October 2013, Daegu Bank held an street campaign for the success of the 2013 Daegu World Energy Congress. Approximately 600 DGB employees walked approximately 30 kilometers from the bank’s main office to Yongdu Bridge and Paldal Bridge, during which they held up their mobile phones which featured the message “I ♥ World Energy Congress” on the screens. 72 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Environmental Management _ Green Initiative Environmental Performance Management CONTEXT & CHALLENGES Growing business domain and size inevitably accompanies an increase in the use of resources. The efficient usage and management of natural resources and use of alternative resources help minimize our environmental impact and contribute to our financial performance. Consequently, a stable system that manages these issues is an indispensible part of good sustainability management practices. OUR APPROACH DGB Financial Group has instituted green management policies and guidelines as its bylaws, and put in place a number of action plans designed to promote green management activities on a Group-wide level. Having set up the Green Finance Group, which oversees Groupwide environmental management practices, we are also implementing and expanding practices throughout our subsidiaries and supply chain. OUR PROGRESS Environmental Environmental Management Practices Management Daegu Bank earned the environmental management system certification (ISO14001) in 2011 and was the first Korean Implementation bank to obtain the Green Management System Korea Standards (GMS: KSI 7001/7002) the same year. In April 2014, the bank undertook a renewal inspection for the ISO14001 and GMS: KSI 7001/7002 certificates, and was recommended Schemes to review two of its practices, including the possibility of developing unit cost-based goals for green management. Corrective and Preventive Measures (cases) Environmental Management Type Non-conformities Actions Taken Progress Rate (%) Remarks Implementation System Internal Audit 4 4 100 Approval of green management policies 2011 Compliance Evaluation and 3 other cases Green Management Policy Internal Audit 2 2 100 Evaluation of green impact of supplies/ 2012 Compliance Evaluation Training on green management policies Internal Audit 0 0 100 Review of improvements of Green Management Goals 2013 green procurement rate and 7 (energy and resources, green purchases, etc.) Compliance Evaluation recommendations for improvements Internal Audit 0 0 100 Review of possibilities of setting unit 2014 cost-based goals for green management Compliance Evaluation practices and 3 other cases Green Management Regulations (Clause, Chapter 5, Article 19) First Korean bank to receive Presidential Commendation at 2013 Korea Green Management Awards Green Management Guidelines DGB Financial Group became the first Korean financial institution to win the Presidential Commendation at the 2013 (14 guidelines) Korea Green Management Awards co-hosted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy and Ministry of Environment in July 2013. The Group was singled out for its excellent performance in leading green management and green finance efforts, with special mention of its well-established green management and sustainability management roadmap. Ranked 2nd at 2013 Green Ranking Awards DGB Financial Group ranked second among the top 200 listed companies in Korea at the 2013 Green Ranking Awards, organized by SUSTINVEST-Fn Guide. Since 2012, the Green Ranking has been evaluating Korea’s top 200 listed companies, in terms of sales (consolidated) and market capitalization, for their performance in three areas; commitment to green management, pollutant emissions volume, and disclosure of environmental information. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 73 Practicing Raising employees’ environmental awareness Green Habits DGB Financial Group has been providing environmental education to its employees in order to raise their environmental awareness, while at the same time creating an eco-friendly working environment that encourages individual employees to put into action a green lifestyle. Courses on environmental management and green finance are mandatory for employees. Furthermore, greenhouse gas inventory system users’ training and internal auditors’ green management system training are conducted intermittently to further enhance our employees’ environmental awareness. Employee Environmental Education Performance Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of employees (persons) 2,561 2,626 2,772 2,850 Annual training hours on green 277 300 350 400 management (hours) Training hours (person-hours) 0.11 0.11 0.13 0.14 Green Touch Program DGB Financial Group adopted the Green Touch Program in September 2012. Installed on 3,980 computers at its head office and branches, the program shows the amount of CO2 emissions saved while a computer was idle. The program has been a great success, resulting in the reduction of 14.9 tons of CO2 emissions in 2013. Green Touch Program Benefits Equivalent to Saved Electricity Saved Hours of Amount of CO2 Type Planting Trees (kWh) Electricity (hours) emissions reduced (trees) 2013 (Jan.-Dec. 2013) 97,655 41,406 14,948 962,367 2014 (Jan.-Mar. 2014) 12,946 5,489 1,982 128,107 Installing LED Lights on Happy Gallery Stairs CO2 emissions saved through Green Touch Program Daegu Bank reformed the emergency stairs at its main office building in 2013 so as to encourage employees’ to take the stairs in order to save electricity. In 2013, we planted a total of 56 LED lights on the 17 floors of the main building, thus enhancing energy efficiency and preserving the environment. BMW Commuting Day 14.9tons Daegu Bank has set the 9th of every month as BMW Commuting Day, during which employees commute by bus, metro or walk. Through the campaign, the bank encourages employees to use public transportation when attending outside events and downtown business meetings. The bank also runs regular employee surveys for related promotional ideas. DGB Mass Transportation Use Performance DGB Employee’s Commuting Method by Car DGB Employees’ Commuting Distance 47% Less than 5km Above 15km 28% 38% 20% 14% Less than 10km 7% 5% 24% 2% 3% 1% 1% Less than 15km (med (subc ium om Gpa aso ct lin 10% -si G car) e ze a d so se lin (la G an) e rg a d e s so (m (subc om ed lin an e ) ed ium-si pa Di ct es ca el r) zed Di se es da el (su (larg e s Di n) ed ese (med bc om pa an l ) ium-si ze ct LPG car) (la d se LP da G n) rg es ed LPG an ) 74 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Voluntary Agreement on Green Procurement Daegu Bank has not only expanded its green procurement under its Green Procurement Guidelines, but also signed a voluntary agreement on green procurement with the government. Green Purchase Amount (KRW in millions) Total Purchase Amount Green Purchase Amount Green Procurement Ratio Type (KRW in millions) (KRW in millions) (%) 2011 8,465 6,902 81.54 2012 7,432 5,817 78.23 2013 7,922 6,597 83.27 2014 (plan) 8,000 6,700 83.75 Energy Management and Verification of GHG Emissions by Third-Party Conservation & DGB Financial Group monitors its energy consumption and GHG emissions on a monthly basis. The organizational GHG Reduction boundaries of its GHG emissions include Daegu Bank, U-Payment, Daegu Credit Information and Daegu Data System. The credibility of the energy conservation GHG emissions data is verified by a third party agency. In particular, GHG emissions generated from DGB employees’ commuting to work are calculated in Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) GHG Inventory Category Remarks Management Scheme Organizational boundaries DGB Financial Group, Includes DGB’s Information Center and Training Center Company-wide Response Main office building DGB Financial Group’s subsidiary DGB Data System to Climate Change (Sustainability Management Committee Branches All branches Chair: CEO) Vehicles Includes company-owned and leased vehicles DGB In-house Daycare Center Includes inventory report target as an in-house daycare center Working-level executive (Green Finance Director) Daegu Credit Information Includes inventory report target as a group subsidiary U-Payment Includes inventory report target as a group subsidiary Working-level Department (Green Finance Division) Reporting Scopes Performance Data Collection (DGB’s General Administration Type Emissions Source Fuels (substance) Department, Subsidiaries’ Channel Planning Departments) Facilities within the scope of Daegu Bank’s Kerosene, diesel, LNG, Stationary combustion Activity Data Collection administration that uses fossil fuels: boilers, propane gas (DGB’s General Administration emissions restaurants, emergency power generators, etc. Department) Direct emissions (Scope 1) Mobile Combustion Company-owned vehicles and leaded (long-term Diesel, gasoline, LPG Emissions Calculations Emissions lease) vehicles (DGB Financial Group’s DGB Economic Research Institute) Fugitive emissions Air-conditioning facilities within business premises R-410a, R407c Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Purchased electricity Electricity facilities Electricity Inventory Control (DGB’s IT Business Department) Transportation for business trips out of town and Railway (out-of-town business Other indirect emissions Mobile (business trips, overseas trips), airway (business trips to Jeju (Scope 3) commuting) Island and overseas), cars/buses/ subway (commuting) Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions DGB Financial Group manages its energy consumption and GHG emissions by means of the GHG Inventory System. In 2013, the focus was on quantifying its Scope 3 emissions, and calculating the distance travelled by employees on business trips in and outside Korea, and commuting to work. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 75 Energy Consumption (TJ) Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Total 283.47 249.26 248.76 245.50 Direct 46.88 39.42 35.46 34.50 Indirect 236.59 209.84 213.30 211.0 GHG Emissions Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Scope1+2 34,326 30,152 30,146 30,080 Scope1 3,196 2,662 2,095 2,080 GHG Emissions (tCO2e) Scope2 31,130 27,490 28,051 28,000 Scope3 715 1,317 2,414 2,400 GHG Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Performance (tCO2e) Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Branches 20,373 19,874 20,344.15 20,200.00 ATM 6,122 3,555 3,479.91 3,400.00 Head Office 4,500 3,931 4,118.90 4,100.00 (including DGB Financial Group and DGB Data System) Daegu Credit Information 50 50 42.46 40.00 U-Payment 85 80 65.79 60.00 Reducing GHG Emissions with Renewable Energy Starting in 2008, Daegu Bank has been operating solar power generators (15 kW) at its Banyawol Branch and Gyeongju Branch, each of which are capable of generating 1,042 kW (fixed-parabolic type) and 1,381 kW (fixedrectangular type) of renewable energy on a monthly basis, respectively. Renewable Energy Use Rate (%) Type 2011 2012 2013 Banyawol Branch 12.10 12.20 12.15 Gyeongju Branch 12.45 12.50 12.40 Resource Use Paper Use and Waste The main usage of paper at Daegu Bank is associated with business activities, such as slips, receipts, proposals and Management reports. In order to reduce paper use, the bank has replaced paper notifications to customers with an e-mail service. Paper Use Type 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Use (boxes) 9,940 9,425 10,193 10,000 *Paper use at office: 1 box= 2,500 sheets of A4 76 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Electronic Bills Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) No. of total sent 5,958,626 6,518,209 6,687,336 6,781,680 No. of Electronic Bills 1,042,176 1,573,239 1,820,640 1,898,883 Rate of Electronic Bills (%) 17.4% 24.1% 27.2% 28.0% Waste Management and Recycling Waste Disposal Papers Electronics Ribbons Printer Toners Type Amount Recycling Amount Recycling Amount Recycling Disposed Rate Disposed Rate Disposed Rate 2011 116.3 tons 100% 729KG 15.7% 2.6 tons 13% 2012 110.3 tons 100% 710KG 14.8% 2.5 tons 12% 2013 119.3 tons 100% 745KG 16.1% 2.8 tons 13% Water Use and Daegu Bank installed a rainwater collector with an annual storage capacity of 360 tons on the rooftop of its main office building in 2009. The collected rainwater is used for cleaning cars and building floors. In 2013, the scope of Precipitation water use control was expanded to its 240 branches. Recycling Water use Water Use Amount (tons) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Plan) Total Amount 119,266 108,626 174,518 170,000 Amount used per Branch 805.0 734.0 727.2 708.00 Scope of Water Use Data Main office building and 148 branch offices Main office building and 240 branch offices Collection SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 77 BOARD OF DIRECTORS DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Park, In-gyu CEO & Chairman of the Board Lee, Jeong-do Outside Director Cho, Hae-nyoung Outside Director 78 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Kim, Ssang-su Outside Director Lee, Ji-eun Outside Director Chang, Ik-hyun Outside Director Park, Dong-gowan Vice president SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 79 BOARD OF DIRECTORS DAEGU BANK Park, In-gyu CEO & Chairman of the Board Jung, Chang-mo Standing Auditor of Daegu Bank Lee, Chan-hee Standing Director 80 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Lee, Mahn-hee Standing Director Hong, Jang-hee Outside Director Suh, In-duk Outside Director Sung, Nak-in Outside Director Kim, Jin-tak Outside Director Suk, Wang-ki Outside Director SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 81 Financial Section Management's Discussion & Analysis 83 Independent Auditors’ Report 89 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 90 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 91 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 92 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 93 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 95 82 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP FINANCIAL SECTION Management's Discussion & Analysis DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group envisions becoming a community-engaged total financial group. To that end, the Group is strategically diversifying its business portfolio and strengthening cross-selling among subsidiaries. Furthermore, the Group is creating a balance between profitability and growth, as well as tightening up risk management practices under the business strategies of new growth engines, group synergy and stability enhancement. Since its launch in May 2011 through the share swap acquisition of Daegu Bank, Daegu Credit Information and U-Payment, the Group has added two more subsidiaries, DGB Capital and Metro Asia Capital, through a share purchase agreement in January 2012. With the foundation of DGB Data System in April 2012, the total number of subsidiaries now stands at five. (In billions of won) DGB Data Daegu Credit DGB Group Daegu Bank DGB Capital U-payment Other(*) System Info Gross Operating Income 987.2 964.3 21.9 4.6 1.0 1.2 (5.8) Interest Income 941.7 923.2 21.6 0.0 0.1 0.2 (3.4) Non-Interest Income (Loss) 45.5 41.1 0.3 4.6 0.9 1.0 (2.4) General and Administrative Expenses 507.9 491.3 6.1 3.6 0.6 1.0 5.3 Provisioning Expenses 140.3 136.4 4.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.3) Operating Income 339.0 336.6 11.6 1.0 0.4 0.2 (10.8) Net Income 244.6 248.9 8.9 (1.0) 0.3 0.1 (12.6) Total Assets 41,742.5 41,085.6 643.6 45.7 6.9 4.5 (43.8) * Consolidation adjustments and trust assets In 2013, DGB Financial Group’s total assets grew by KRW 3.9 trillion from 2012 to reach KRW 41.7 trillion, with its operating income and net income totaling KRW 339 billion and KRW 244.6 billion, respectively. Daegu Bank contributed 96.23 percent of the Group’s overall operating income, posting KRW 336.6 billion (after excluding intercompany transactions) for the year. DGB Capital saw its contribution edge up by 3.10 percentage point year-on-year to 3.32 percent. The return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) of DGB Financial Group for 2013 stood at 0.65 percent and 8.63 percent, respectively, slightly lower than the previous year. DGB Financial Group’s asset quality indicators have been consistently improving over the past three years thanks to its preemptive risk management and proactive response to crises, while its BIS capital adequacy ratio has also stabilized, hovering above the industrial average. The dividend payout ratio for 2013 stood at 15.8 percent, which is in the box range of between 15 percent and 16 percent achieved over the last three years. As for credit ratings, the Group maintains the highest grade AAA by Korean raters and A2 by Moody’s. Operating income Contribution Indicator Account (%) ROA 0.65 Profitability ROE 8.63 DGB Capital Daegu Credit Information 3.32% 0.06% CIR 51.45 NPL Ratio 1.03 U-payment DGB Data System Asset Quality 0.29% 0.11% Delinquency rate 0.57 Capital adequacy ratio 15.06 Capital Adequacy Tier I CAR 11.50 Denomination Dividend Rate 5.60 Dividend Payout Dividend Payout Ratio 15.80 Daegu Bank Nice Investors Service, Korea Ratings AAA 96.23% Credit Ratings Moody's A2 S&P (DGB, as of Apr. 2013) BBB+ * International credit ratings are only given to Daegu Bank. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 83 FINANCIAL SECTION Management's Discussion & Analysis Daegu Bank I. Operating Results Net Interest Income & Net Interest Margin (NIM) (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Interest revenue 1,645.6 1,698.8 -53.2 -3.1% Cash & due from banks 2.8 16.4 -13.6 -82.9% Securities 270.7 265.6 5.1 1.9% Loans 1,219.3 1,246.8 -27.5 -2.2% Others 152.8 170.0 -17.2 -10.1% Interest expenses 722.4 780.5 -58.1 -7.4% Deposits 530.6 572.9 -42.3 -7.4% Borrowings 62.0 79.4 -17.4 -21.9% Bonds 118.3 116.6 1.7 1.5% Others 11.5 11.6 -0.1 -0.9% Net interest income 923.2 918.3 4.9 0.5% Net interest margin (%) 2.54 2.78 -0.24%p Net interest spread in Won(%) 3.05 3.33 -0.28%p (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Interest bearing asset 31,733 29,004 2,729 9.4% Interest expense liabilities 30,765 28,230 2,535 9.0% Net Interest bearing asset 968 774 194 25.1% YoY Change 2013 2012 (%) Net Interest Spread in Won 3.05% 3.33% -0.28%p Average Lending Rate 5.29% 6.00% -0.71%p Average Deposit Rate 2.24% 2.67% -0.43%p In 2013, Daegu Bank saw its net interest income inch up by 0.5 percent from the previous year to KRW 923.2 billion. The bank’s net interest margin and net interest spread slightly drew down by 0.24 percentage points and 0.28 percentage points, respectively from 2012 due to prolonged low-interest rate trends. The 9.4 percent year-on-year growth in net interest bearing asset propped up the KRW 4.9 billion year-on-year increase in net interest income for 2013. 84 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP NIM for 5 years 3.16% 3.21% 3.12% 2.78% 2.54% Bank’s net interest margin is on a downward trend due to conservative investor sentiment amid the slowing economic recovery and the government’s adherence to a low-interest policy. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Non-interest Income (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Non-interest Income 41.1 50.7 -9.6 -18.9% Commission income 72.1 73.4 -1.3 -1.8% Gain on securities 31.2 17.4 13.8 79.3% Gain on foreign currency transactions & derivatives products 15.1 24.6 -9.5 -38.6% Gain(Loss) on disposition of loans 8.2 14.7 -6.5 -44.2% Other operating expenses -85.5 -79.4 -6.1 -7.7% In 2013, Daegu Bank’s non-interest income dropped by 18.9 percent, or KRW 9.6 billion, from the previous year to KRW 41.1 billion. This was due to a KRW 9.5 billion and KRW 6.5 billion year-on-year decline, respectively, in the gain on foreign currency transactions & derivatives and disposition of loans, which undermined the KRW 13.8 billion year-on-year growth in the gain on securities. Another reason was the KRW 6.1 billion growth in other operating expenses as a result of the increased contributions to Credit Guarantee Funds and Deposit Insurance premiums. General & Administrative Expenses (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) General and administrative expenses 491.3 479.3 12.0 2.5% Salaries and employee benefits 245.7 244.0 1.7 0.7% Taxes and dues & depreciation 62.6 61.8 0.8 1.3% Retirement allowances 38.9 33.7 5.2 15.4% Other G&A expenses 144.1 139.8 4.3 3.1% Cost-income ratio (%) 50.9% 49.5% 1.4% General and administrative expenses in 2013 stood at KRW 491.3 billion, up KRW 12.0 billion from 2012. Although the net interest income gained 0.5 percent from the previous year, general and administrative expenses edged up 2.5 percent from 2012, resulting in a 1.4 percentage point year-on-year increase in the cost-income ratio at 50.9 percent. This growth can be explained mainly by KRW 5.2 billion paid in severance allowances and KRW 4.3 billion growth in general administrative expenses. In 2013, Daegu Bank added six new branch offices, reinforcing its branch network, and reshuffled its organization in order to enhance work efficiency and productivity. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 85 FINANCIAL SECTION Management's Discussion & Analysis Provisioning Expenses (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Pre-provisioning operating income 473.0 489.7 -16.7 -3.4% Operating income 336.6 380.4 -43.8 -11.5% Total provision 136.4 109.3 27.1 24.8% Provision for loan losses 147.3 154.1 -6.8 -4.4% Others -10.9 -44.8 33.9 75.7% Pre-provision Income & Operating Income 489.7 473.0 380.4 336.6 Daegu Bank’s pre-provisioning operating income totaled KRW 473.0 billion, down 3.4 percent year-on-year, as the slight increase in net interest income was offset by the declined non-interest income and increased general & administrative expenses as a result of layouts and branch expansions. Operating income stood at KRW 336.6 billion, down 11.5 percent from ▒ Pre-provisioning operating income 2012, stemming from the KRW 27.1 billion year-on-year growth in total ▒ Operating income provision. 2012 2013 II. Financial Position Assets (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Assets 36,921.0 34,131.1 2,789.9 8.2% Cash and due from banks 1,491.5 1,183.8 307.7 26.0% Securities 7,355.6 6,807.3 548.3 8.1% Loans 25,991.1 24,162.4 1,828.7 7.6% Fixed assets 311.2 307.6 3.6 1.2% Other assets 1,771.6 1,670.0 101.6 6.1% In 2013, Daegu Bank’s total assets amounted to KRW 36,921 billion, an 8.2 percent increase from 2012. Despite the prolonged economic slowdown and uncertainties abounding in international markets, the bank was able to sustain an approximate eight percent growth in its asset size for the second consecutive year. This can be attributed to its aggressive customer-oriented marketing through branch network expansion. Loans (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Total loans 24,844.9 22,632.9 2,212.0 9.8% Loans in KRW 24,280.0 21,969.0 2,311.0 10.5% Loans to enterprises 17,110.8 15,137.5 1,973.3 13.0% Loans to households 6,643.5 6,327.0 316.5 5.0% Loans to public and others 525.7 504.5 21.2 4.2% 86 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Loans in KRW Composition Public and others 2% Thanks to growing regional exports and the falling delinquency rate of Households 27% corporate borrowers, the bank’s loans extended to businesses rose by 13.0 percent from 2012 to reach KRW 17,110.8 billion in 2013. Household loans also rose 5 percent from the previous year to KRW 6,643.5 billion backed by the stabilizing real estate market. In the meantime, loans to the public sector, Enterprises 70% which have a relatively low credit risk, advanced only 4.2 percent year-onyear to reach KRW 525.7 billion in 2013. Funding Structure (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Total liabilities 34,000.9 31,673.2 2,327.7 7.3% Deposits 26,877.1 24,891.7 1,985.4 8.0% Borrowings 2,728.2 2,899.8 -171.6 -5.9% Others 4,395.6 3,881.7 513.9 13.2% Funding Composition Others 13% Borrowings 8% Total liabilities in 2013 stood at KRW 34,000.9 billion, up 7.3 percent yearon-year. While high interest-rated borrowing fell 5.9 percent from 2012, the Deposits 79% low interest-rated deposits increased 8.0 percent for the same period as the number of depository customers grew by 90,000. (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Core deposits(A) (balance) 9,162.6 8,543.3 619.3 7.2% Total deposits (in KRW)(B) 24,950.2 22,380.4 2,569.8 11.5% % of core deposits(A/B) 36.7% 38.2% -1.5%p Total deposits(C) 30,208.9 27,177.1 3,031.8 11.2% % of core deposits(A/C) 30.3% 31.4% -1.1%p In 2013, core deposits totaled KRW 9,162.6 billion, up 7.2 percent from 2012, backed by the bank’s aggressive marketing to induce core deposits and public deposits. Nonetheless, the growth in total deposits drew down the core deposits’ contribution to total deposits by 1.1 percentage points from the previous year to 30.3 percent for 2013. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 87 FINANCIAL SECTION Management's Discussion & Analysis Asset Quality (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) Total credits 25,856.0 23,786.9 2,069.1 8.7% Normal 25,289.9 23,252.0 2,037.9 8.8% Precautionary 298.4 287.0 11.4 4.0% Substandard 199.7 160.7 39.0 24.3% Doubtful 49.0 63.3 -14.3 -22.6% Estimated loss 19.0 23.9 -4.9 -20.5% NPL ratio (%) 1.04 1.04 0.00 Loan loss coverage ratio (%) 135.6 141.8 -6.2%p Delinquency rate (%) 0.52 0.70 -0.18%p In 2013, non-performing loans (NPL) amounted to KRW 267.7 billion, up KRW 19.8 billion from the previous year, but the 8.7 percent year-on-year growth in total loan balance leveled the NPL ratio to the same level as the previous year. NPL Ratio for 5 years ▒ NPL Ratio 1.40% 1.43% 1.14% 1.04% 1.04% NPL ratio, which had kept exacerbating to 1.43 percent up until 2010 due to the sagging domestic economy and project financing solvencies amid the freezing apartment housing market, turned around in 2011 thanks to the bank’s preemptive risk management effort, reaching to 1.04 percent by 2012. The figure has remained the same, leading the industry ever since, for many years now. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Capital Adequacy (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2013 2012 Amount (%) BIS capital 3,951.7 3,500.0 451.7 12.9% Tier I capital 3,018.0 2,607.3 410.7 15.8% Tier II capital 933.7 892.7 41.0 4.6% Risk-weighted assets 25,976.8 23,940.0 2,036.8 8.5% BIS ratio 15.21% 14.62% 0.59%p Tier I CAR (%) 11.62% 10.89% 0.73%p Tier II CAR (%) 3.59% 3.73% -0.14%p In 2013, total capital saw a 12.9 percent year-on-year growth to KRW 3,951.7 billion thanks to increased Tier I capital. Risk-weighted assets gained 8.5 percent from 2012 due to asset growth, but the total capital increase pushed the BIS ratio by 0.59 percentage point to 15.21 percent. This outperforms the industry average and hovers above the recommended 8 percent guideline of the Bank of International Settlement (BIS). 88 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP FINANCIAL SECTION Independent Auditors’ Report KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. P.O.Box Kangnam 1989 Gangnam Finance Center 10th Fl., 737 Yeoksam-dong, Kangnam-ku Seoul 135 – 984 Republic of Korea Tel 82-2-2112-0100 l Fax 82-2-2112-0101 l www.kr.kpmg.com The Board of Directors and Shareholders DGB Financial Group Co., LTD. We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of DGB Financial Group Co., LTD. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and January 1 2012, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and January 1 2012, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following: The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report is for use by those knowledgeable about Korean auditing standards and their application in practice. As described in note 2-(e) to the consolidated financial statements, the Group adopted the amendments to K-IFRS No. 1110, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, etc. for the year ended December 31, 2013. The Group applied this change in accounting policies retrospectively, and accordingly restated the comparative information of the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2012 and January 1, 2012. Accordingly, comparative information of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the consolidated statement of financial position as of January 1, 2012 differ from those attached in our reports dated February 25, 2013 and February 28, 2012, respectively. Seoul, Korea March 6, 2014 This report is effective as of March 6, 2014, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 89 FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2013, 2012, and January 1, 2012 (In millions of won) December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 Note 2013 (Restated) (Restated) Assets Cash and due from banks 5,27,44,48 \ 1,496,884 1,183,977 1,427,705 Financial assets held for trading 6,17,48 292,919 292,450 313,776 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 7,11,27,48 142,154 147,614 215,554 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,11,17,27,48 2,588,348 1,994,272 1,743,557 Held-to-maturity financial assets 9,10,48 4,385,242 4,428,522 4,015,267 Loans and receivables 13,14,15,16,27,48 28,134,131 25,887,549 23,292,295 Derivative assets hedging 17,48 18,687 24,435 24,862 Investment in associates 12 233 230 264 Property and equipment, net 18 317,857 311,363 299,123 Investment property, net 20 85,811 88,066 87,640 Intangible assets, net 19 91,438 73,726 80,380 Other assets 21 24,118 30,502 39,043 Total assets \ 37,577,822 34,462,706 31,539,466 Liabilities Depository liabilities 22,27,48 \ 26,784,399 24,762,700 22,184,993 Financial liabilities held for trading 17,48 37,895 30,826 67,363 Derivative liabilities hedging 17,48 10,455 1,097 704 Borrowings 23,27,48 2,728,154 2,899,804 3,328,764 Debentures 23,27,48 2,763,315 2,415,739 2,206,765 Defined benefit obligations 25 16,764 17,199 16,524 Provisions 24 36,294 30,655 31,997 Deferred income tax liabilities 42 41,721 52,298 42,565 Other liabilities 26,27,48 2,160,288 1,721,023 1,360,377 Total liabilities 34,579,285 31,931,341 29,240,052 Equity Capital stock 1,28 \ 670,266 670,266 670,266 Capital surplus 28 1,423,483 1,423,535 1,423,535 Capital adjustment 28 (720) (10) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 30 (3,704) 11,933 7,172 Retained earnings 29 619,647 425,631 198,451 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2,708,972 2,531,365 2,299,414 Non-controlling interests 28 289,565 Total equity 2,998,537 2,531,365 2,299,414 Total liabilities and equity \ 37,577,822 34,462,706 31,539,466 90 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) 2012 Note 2013 (Restated) Net interest income 4,31 \ 941,670 926,464 Interest income 1,682,568 1,716,152 Interest expense 740,898 789,688 Net fee and commission income 4,32 72,741 73,506 Fee and commission income 124,033 124,568 Commission expense 51,292 51,062 Net gain on financial instruments held for trading 33 22,228 36,587 Net gain on financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 34 2,075 13,634 Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets 35 34,540 14,183 Net gain (loss) on derivative hedging instruments (9,553) 7,541 Impairment losses on financial assets 4,36 154,764 163,914 Net gain on foreign currency transactions 27 10,116 21,881 General and administrative expenses 37,38 507,926 492,708 Other operating loss, net 39 (72,122) (64,195) Operating income 40 339,005 372,979 Non-operating loss, net 41 (9,691) (9,990) Profit before income tax expenses 329,314 362,989 Income tax expenses 42 84,799 88,891 Profit for the year 244,515 274,098 Reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently: Net unrealized change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, net of tax (11,084) 5,493 Loss on translation of foreign operations (308) (89) Remeasurement of defined benefit plan (4,245) (643) Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 30 (15,637) 4,761 Total comprehensive income for the year \ 228,877 278,859 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Group \ 238,254 274,098 Non-controlling interest 6,261 Profit for the year \ 244,515 274,098 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Group \ 222,616 278,859 Non-controlling interest 6,261 Total comprehensive income for the year \ 228,877 278,859 Earnings per share (in won) 43 \ 1,777 2,045 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 91 FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In millions of won) Accumulated Equity Capital Capital Capital other Retained attributable to Noncontrolling RestatedTotal stock surplus adjustment comprehensive earnings owners of the interest equity income(loss) Company Balance at January 1, 2012 \ 670,266 1,423,535 (10) 23,040 174,570 2,291,401 2,291,401 Cumulative effect on change of (15,868) 23,881 8,013 8,013 accounting policies Balance at January 1, 2012 670,266 1,423,535 (10) 7,172 198,451 2,299,414 2,299,414 (Restated) Profit for the year 274,098 274,098 274,098 Year-end dividends (46,918) (46,918) (46,918) Disposal of treasury stock 10 10 10 Net unrealized change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, net of 5,493 5,493 5,493 tax Loss on translation of foreign operations (89) (89) (89) Remeasurement of defined benefit plan (643) (643) (643) Balance at December 31, 2012 \ 670,266 1,423,535 11,933 425,631 2,531,365 2,531,365 (Restated) Balance at January 1, 2013 \ 670,266 1,423,535 28,444 401,013 2,523,258 2,523,258 Cumulative effect on change of (16,511) 24,618 8,107 8,107 accounting policies Balance at January 1, 2013 670,266 1,423,535 11,933 425,631 2,531,365 2,531,365 (Restated) Issuance of hybrid bonds 289,565 289,565 Hybrid bonds dividends (6,261) (6,261) Profit for the year 238,254 238,254 6,261 244,515 Year-end dividends (44,238) (44,238) (44,238) Net unrealized change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, net of (11,084) (11,084) (11,084) tax Loss on translation of foreign operations (308) (308) (308) Remeasurement of defined benefit plan (4,245) (4,245) (4,245) Changes in other capital surplus (52) (52) (52) Changes in other capital adjustments (720) (720) (720) Balance at December 31, 2013 \ 670,266 1,423,483 (720) (3,704) 619,647 2,708,972 289,565 2,998,537 92 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (In millions of won) 2012 Note 2013 (Restated) Cash flows provided by(used in) operating activities \ (45,984) 490,006 Profit for the year 244,515 274,098 Adjustments for: (693,868) (750,758) Income tax expenses 84,799 88,891 Interest expense 740,898 789,688 Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 5,092 3,360 Loss on valuation of trading derivative instruments 37,024 28,025 Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 5,472 Loss on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 676 11,423 Impairment loss of available-for-sale financial assets 682 9,760 Loss on valuation of hedged assets 3,788 6,745 Loss on valuation of hedging derivative instruments 14,115 1,732 Reserve for credit risk adjustment of hedging derivative instruments 57 21 Bad debt expenses 154,082 154,119 Depreciation and amortization 53,268 50,654 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 60 17 Impairment loss on intangible assets 2,744 13 Provision for others 10,175 2,461 Retirement benefit 19,838 19,110 Loss on foreign currency transactions 83,023 113,938 Other operating expense 4,337 4,308 Loss from equity method investment securities 34 Interest income (1,682,568) (1,716,152) Dividend income (18,376) (22,237) Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (1,159) (2,840) Gain on valuation of trading derivative instruments (57,405) (75,311) Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment of trading derivative instruments (19,731) (41,791) Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (167) (7,516) Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets (21,789) (20,486) Gain on valuation of hedged asset (6,576) (192) Gain on valuation of hedging derivative instruments (164) (8,317) Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment of hedging derivative instruments (7) Gain on disposal of property and equipment (59) (146) Reversal of provisions (4,276) (3,798) Gain on foreign currency transactions (93,139) (135,818) Recovery of expense on stock options (23) (28) Other operating income (8,556) (425) Gain from equity method investment securities (3) Changes in assets and liabilities: (351,218) 115,617 Increase in restricted due from banks (255,398) (108,205) Decrease (increase) in trading securities (7,573) 2,013 Decrease in trading derivative assets 79,150 136,377 Decrease in financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 74,679 Increase in loans and receivables (2,457,407) (2,838,124) Increase in deferred loan origination costs (34,006) (28,563) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 93 FINANCIAL SECTION Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In millions of won) 2012 Note 2013 (Restated) Increase in deferred loan origination fees 4,382 1,134 Collection of loans previously written-off 33,143 48,350 Decrease (increase) in hedging derivative assets (8,174) 4,085 Increase in other assets (7,683) (11,402) Increase in depository liabilities 2,036,002 2,524,753 Decrease in trading derivative liabilities (28,224) (64,455) Increase in hedging derivative liabilities 9,279 3,298 Decrease in defined benefit obligations (5,534) (1,859) Contributions to defined benefit plan assets (20,672) (17,318) Increase in other liabilities 311,497 390,854 Interest paid (798,651) (735,391) Interest received 1,607,085 1,710,755 Dividends received 18,394 25,437 Income taxes paid (72,241) (149,752) Cash flows used in investing activities (550,852) (700,742) Increase in available-for-sale financial assets (2,963,886) (2,579,058) Decrease in available-for-sale financial assets 2,376,170 2,326,790 Increase in held-to-maturity financial assets (553,262) (1,132,743) Decrease in held-to-maturity financial assets 644,755 719,488 Purchase of property and equipment (28,205) (22,292) Disposal of property and equipment 72 117 Purchase of investment property (1,068) Disposal of investment property 348 Purchase of intangible assets (28,003) (17,759) Disposal of non-current assets held for sale 1,300 Decrease in guarantee deposits 1,159 4,483 Cash flows provided by(used in) financing activities 656,358 (154,573) Increase in borrowings, net (159,780) (373,102) Issuance of debentures 820,299 798,897 Repayments of debentures (450,000) (590,000) Increase in deposits for letter of guarantees, net 24,457 4,570 Increase in borrowings from trust accounts, net 188,107 48,639 Increase in foreign exchange settlement credit, net 179 2,814 Increase (decrease) in domestic exchange settlement credit, net (179) 659 Issuance of hybrid bonds 289,565 Stock issue costs paid (720) Dividends paid (48,770) (46,919) Increase in government subsidy 168 Decrease in government subsidy (299) Additional acquisition of investments in associates (6,800) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 59,522 (365,309) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 524,618 876,552 Effect of exchange rate in cash and cash equivalents (4,509) (6,955) Increase in cash and cash equivalents from change of consolidation scope 984 20,330 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 44 \ 580,615 524,618 94 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 1. Reporting Entity (a) Controlling company DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) was incorporated on May 17, 2011 through a business combination involving the exchange of the Company’s common stock with the former shareholders of Daegu Bank, Kardnet Inc. and Daegu Credit Information Co., Ltd. The Company’s principal business includes ownership and management of subsidiaries and associated companies that are engaged in financial services or activities and fund-lending to its operating subsidiaries. The Company’s shares were listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011 and its outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013 is \670,266 million. The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”). (b) Subsidiaries Consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 are as follows (In millions of won, except share information) Classification Number of shares Ownership Acquisition cost Net asset value Book value Daegu Bank 132,125,000 100% \ 2,081,249 2,920,087 2,081,249 DGB Capital Co., Ltd. 22,200,000 100% 115,713 122,268 115,713 U Payment (*1) 2,511,415 100% 15,458 14,376 12,815 Daegu Credit Information Co., Ltd. 600,000 100% 5,109 4,23 2 5,109 DGB Data System 1,200,000 100% 6,000 6,400 6,000 Total \ 2,223,529 3,067,363 2,220,886 (In millions of won) Classification Revenue Profit for the year Location Reporting date Daegu Bank \ 2,372,814 248,902 Daegu December 31 DGB Capital Co., Ltd. 41,073 8,921 Seoul December 31 U Payment (*1) 13,453 (1,081) Daegu December 31 Daegu Credit Information Co., Ltd. 2,124 119 Daegu December 31 DGB Data System 2,348 311 Daegu December 31 Total \ 2,431,812 257,172 (*1) KARDNET, which was a related company of the Group as of December 31, 2012, was merged into U Payment. On March 8, 2013 U Payment became a subsidiary of the company. Daegu Bank’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Trust accounts guaranteed of principal and interest interest Location Reporting date Ownership (%) Principal guaranteed trusts Daegu December 31 – Financial information of Daegubank’s subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Assets Liabilities Revenue Net income Principal guaranteed trusts \ 290,194 282,074 12,717 13 (In millions of won) 2012 Assets Liabilities Revenue Net income Principal guaranteed trusts \ 267,051 258,944 13,242 93 (c) Business combinations of subsidiaries On March 8, 2013, Kardnet, a subsidiary of the Company, merged with U Payment, a subsidiary of BC Card, by stock exchange method. As a result, the Group maintained control of the merged entity by obtaining 56.2% of the shares. On March 28, 2013, the Group additionally acquired the remaining 43.8% of the shares with \6,800 million in cash. The business combination is a reverse acquisition in accounting, thus the legal surviving entity after the merger is U Payment. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 95 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Identifiable assets and liabilities of U Payment as of the merger date are as follows: (In millions of won) Description Amount Current assets \ 3,221 Property and equipment 2,055 Intangible assets 8,103 Other non-current assets 2,022 Current liabilities (19,045) Non-current liabilities (920) Net assets \ (4,564) The Group incurred business combination related costs of \258 million relating to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The legal fees and due diligence costs have been included in commission expenses in the Group's consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The goodwill recognized in the business combination is as follows: (In millions of won) Description Amount Total transfer cost \ 6,748 Fair value of net assets (4,564) Good will \ 11,312 (d) Interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Group has been involved in structured entities through investments in the asset-backed securities, project financing, beneficiary certificates, etc., and the main characteristics of those structured entities are as follows: Description Securitization vehicles are established to buy the assets from the originators and issue the asset-backed securities in Assets-backed securitization order to facilitate the originators’ funding activities and enhance their financial soundness. The Group is involved in the securitization vehicles by purchasing the assetbacked securities issued, or providing credit enhancement. Structured entities for project financing are established to raise funds and invest in a specific project such as M&A Project financing (Mergers and Acquisitions), BTL (Build-Transfer-Lease), shipping finance, etc. The Group is involved in the structured entities by originating loans, investing in equity, or providing credit enhancement. Beneficiary certificate is a type of financial instrument where investment funds raise funds from the general public to Beneficiary certificates invest in a group of assets such as stocks or bonds and distribute their income and capital gains to their investors. The Group is involved in beneficiary certificates by investing in various investment funds. (i) Nature and scope of interests in unconsolidated structured entities The size of the interests in unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2013 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Assets-backed securitization Project financing Beneficiary certificates Total Assets \ 16,319,780 1,523,186 4,173,134 22,016,100 The revenue of the non interests in unconsolidated structured entities for the year ended December 31, 2013 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Assets-backed securitization Project financing Beneficiary certificates Total Interest income \ 45,405 7,489 – 52,894 Fee and commission income 2,679 1,493 304 4,476 Dividend income – – 12,054 12,054 Total \ 48,084 8,982 12,358 69,424 96 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (ii) Nature of associated risk The book values recognized in the financial statements for the interests in unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Assets-backed securitization Project financing Beneficiary certificates Total Assets in statement of financial position Loans \ 973,912 181,920 – 1,155,832 Derivatives instrument assets 2,946 2,946 Available-for-sale financial assets 30,674 300,827 331,501 Total \ 1,007,532 181,920 300,827 1,490,279 The Group’s maximum loss exposure to unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2013 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Assets-backed securitization Project financing Beneficiary certificates Total Investment assets \ 1,007,532 181,920 300,827 1,490,279 Purchase commitments 15,000 15,000 Credit granting 195,241 6,384 56,486 258,111 Total \ 1,217,773 188,304 357,313 1,763,390 2. Basis of Preparation (a) Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”), as prescribed in the Act on External Audits of Corporations in the Republic of Korea. The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issuance by the Board of Directors on February 6, 2014, which will be submitted for approval to the shareholders at a meeting to be held on March 21, 2014. (b) Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the following material items in the consolidated statements of financial position: √ derivative financial instruments measured at fair value √ financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value √ available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value √ contingent consideration payable at the acquisition date measured at fair value √ liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements measured at fair value √ liabilities for defined benefit plans recognized at the net of the total present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets and unrecognized past service costs (c) Functional and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won, which is the Parent Company’s functional currency and the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. (d) Use of estimates and judgments The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with K-IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 97 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (i) Uncertainties of assumptions and estimation Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within the next financial year are included in the following notes: √ Note 14 – Allowance for loan losses √ Note 24 – Provisions √ Note 25 – Defined benefit obligations √ Note 46 – Commitments and contingencies (ii) Measurement of fair value The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of K-IFRS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified. The Group reports significant valuation issues to the audit committee. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. √ Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. √ Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). √ Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement. The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. (e) Changes in accounting policy Except for the changes below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies set out in Note 3 to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2013. √ K-IFRS No. 1110, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ √ K-IFRS No.1112, ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ √ K-IFRS No. 1113, ‘Fair Value Measurement’ √ K-IFRS No. 1019, ‘Employee Benefits’ √ Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to K-IFRS No.1001) √ Disclosures offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to K-IFRS No.1107) The nature of the changes is explained below and the effects of the changes are explained in Note 2(f). (i) Subsidiaries As a result of K-IFRS No.1110, the Group has changed its accounting policy for determining whether it has control over and consequently whether it consolidates its investees. K-IFRS No.1110 introduces a new control model that focuses on whether the Group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns. The Group re-assessed the control conclusion for its investees at January 1, 2013. As a consequence, the Group changed its control relationship with its investee as below. Company Household Money Trust, Old-age Living Pension Trust, Corporation Money Trust, Installment Money Trust of Purpose, Newly included subsidiaries Retirement Trust, New Personal Pension Trust, Personal Pension Trust, New Old-age Living Pension Trust, Pension Trust (ii) Disclosure of interest in other entities As a result of K-IFRS No.1112, the Group has expanded its disclosures about its interests in subsidiaries, equity-accounted investees and interests in unconsolidated structured entities (see Note 1.(b), 1.(c), 1.(d) & 12). 98 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (iii) Fair value measurement K-IFRS No.1113 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements when such measurements are required or permitted by other K-IFRSs. It unifies the definition of fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements in other K-IFRSs, including KIFRS No.1107. As a result, the Group has included additional disclosures in this regard (see Notes 7, 8, and 17). In accordance with the transitional provisions of K-IFRS No.1113, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively and has not provided any comparative information for new disclosures. Notwithstanding the above, the change had no significant impact on the measurements of the Group’s assets and liabilities. (iv) Post-employment defined benefit plans As a result of K-IFRS No.1019, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to the basis for determining the income or expense related to its post-employment defined benefit plans. Under K-IFRS No.1019, the Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Consequently, the net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) now comprises: interest cost on the defined benefit obligation, interest income on plan assets, and interest on the effect on the asset ceiling. Previously, the Group determined interest income on plan assets based on their long-term rate of expected return. (v) Presentation of items of other comprehensive income (OCI) As a result of the amendments to K-IFRS No.1001, the Group has modified the presentation of items of OCI in its statement of profit or loss and OCI, to present separately items that would be reclassified to profit or loss from those that would never be. Comparative information has been re-presented accordingly. (vi) Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities As a result of the amendments to K-IFRS No.1107, the Group has expanded its disclosures about the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities (see Note 48.(c)). (f) Impact of changes in accounting policy (i) K-IFRS No.1110, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ In accordance with the transitional provisions of K-IFRS No.1110, the Group assessed the control conclusion for its investees at January 1, 2013. The change was applied retrospectively, and the Group restated prior period financial statements accordingly. The following table summarizes the adjustments made to the Group's financial statements. ① Effects on the statements of financial position (In millions of won) December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 As previously As previously Amendments As restated Amendments As restated reported(*1) reported(*1) Financial assets held for trading \ 85,627 206,824 292,451 81,116 232,661 313,777 Loans and receivables 25,849,460 38,089 25,887,549 23,279,493 12,802 23,292,295 Overall impact on total assets 34,217,793 244,913 34,462,706 31,294,003 245,463 31,539,466 Depository liabilities 24,520,854 241,846 24,762,700 21,943,410 241,583 22,184,993 Other liabilities 1,726,062 (5,041) 1,721,021 1,364,511 (4,134) 1,360,377 Overall impact on total liabilities 31,694,536 236,805 31,931,341 29,002,603 237,449 29,240,052 Retained earnings 417,523 8,108 425,631 190,437 8,014 198,451 Overall impact on total equity 2,523,257 8,108 2,531,365 2,291,400 8,014 2,299,414 (*1) Changes in the other accounting policies are reflected. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 99 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ② Effects on the statements of comprehensive income (In millions of won) 2012 As previously reported(*1) Amendments As restated Net interest income \ 924,398 2,066 926,464 Net fee and commission income 72,919 587 73,506 Net gain (loss) on financial instruments held for trading 38,417 (1,830) 36,587 Other operating loss, net (63,707) (488) (64,195) Non-operating loss, net (9,748) (242) (9,990) Net income for the year 274,005 93 274,098 Earnings per share (in won)(*2) 2,044 1 2,045 (*1) Changes in the other accounting policies are reflected. (*2) Diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share because the Group has no issued dilutive securities. ③ Effects on the statements of comprehensive cash flows (In millions of won) 2012 As previously reported(*1) Amendments As restated Net cash flows from operating activities \ 488,279 1,727 490,006 Net cash flows from financing activities (152,846) (1,727) (154,573) (ii) Amendments to K-IFRS No. 1019, ‘Employee Benefits’ The amendments to K-IFRS No. 1019 are applied retrospectively, and the Group restated its prior period financial statements accordingly. The following table summarizes the financial effects on the financial statements. ① Effects on the statements of financial position (In millions of won) December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 As previously As previously Amendments As restated Amendments As restated reported(*1) reported(*1) Accumulated other comprehensive income \ 28,444 (16,511) 11,933 23,040 (15,868) 7,172 Retained earnings 409,120 16,511 425,631 182,583 15,868 198,451 (*1) Changes in the other accounting policies are reflected. ② Effects on the statements of comprehensive income (In millions of won) 2012 As previously reported(*1) Amendments As restated General and administrative expenses \ 491,860 848 492,708 Operating income(*2) 372,131 848 372,979 Income tax expenses 89,096 (205) 88,891 Profit for the year 273,455 643 274,098 Earnings per share (in won)(*3) 2,040 5 2,045 (*1) Changes in the other accounting policies are reflected. (*2) Amendments to K-IFRS No. 1001 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ applied retrospectively. (*3) Diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share because the Group has no issued dilutive securities. (iii) Amendments to K-IFRS No. 1001, ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ The Group applied the amendments to K-IFRS No. 1001, ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ since December 31, 2012. The Group’s operating profit is calculated as revenue less: (1) operating expenses, and (2) general and administrative expenses, and is presented separately in the statement of comprehensive income. 100 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP The following table summarizes the financial effects on the statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2012. The Group applied the changes of accounting policy retrospectively and restated its comparative financial statements. (In millions of won) 2012 Operating profit before adoption of the amendment(*1) \ 360,377 Changes : Non operating income (6,471) Rental income 1,398 Gain on disposition of tangible assets 63 Others 5,010 Non operating expense 19,073 Collecting expenses for written-off loans 311 Donations 14,268 Others 4,494 Operating profit after adoption of the amendment 372,979 (*1) Changes in the other accounting policies are reflected. 3. Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies applied by the Group in preparation of its consolidated financial statements are included below. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements except for the changes in accounting policies as explained in note 2.(e). Certain comparative amounts in the statement of comprehensive income have been reclassified or rerepresented as a result of a change in the accounting policy regarding the presentation of items of OCI.retrospectively, and the Group restated prior period financial statements accordingly. The following table summarizes the adjustments made to the Group's financial statements. (a) Operating segment An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group’s CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. The Group has five operating segments which consist of Corporate, Individuals, Public, Money Market Center and Others, as described in note 4. (b) Basis of consolidation (i) Business combinations A business combination is accounted for by applying the acquisition method, unless it is a combination involving entities or business under common control. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognised in profit or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. The costs to issue debt or equity securities are recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No.1032, 'Financial Instruments: Presentation' and K-IFRS No.1039, 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. If share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s awards), then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination. This determination is based on the marketbased measure of the replacement awards compared with the market-based measure of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to precombination service. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 101 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. (iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee.a Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. (iv) Non-controlling interests(NCIs) NCIs are measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. (v) Loss of control When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related NCI and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. (vi) Interests in equity-accounted investees The Group’s interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in associates and a joint venture. Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Interests in associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. They are recognised initially at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of equityaccounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. (c) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and are used by the Group in management of its short-term commitments. Generally equity investments are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. However, redeemable preference shares, for which the period from the acquisition to redemption is short, are classified as cash and cash equivalents. (d) Non-derivative financial assets The Group recognizes and measures non-derivative financial assets by the following four categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The Group recognizes financial assets in the consolidated statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Upon initial recognition, non-derivative financial assets are measured at their fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the asset’s acquisition or issuance. (i) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset is classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition. Upon initial recognition, transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. (ii) Held-to-maturity investments A non-derivative financial asset with a fixed or determinable payment and fixed maturity, for which the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity, are classified as held-to-maturity investments. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 102 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (iii) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method except for loans and receivables of which the effect of discounting is immaterial. (iv) Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-tomaturity investments or loans and receivables. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value, which changes in fair value, net of any tax effect, recorded in other comprehensive income in equity. Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by delivery of such unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost. When a financial asset is derecognized or impairment losses are recognized, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive payment is established. (v) De-recognition of financial assets The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognized as a separate asset or liability. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred financial assets, the Group continues to recognize the transferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration received. (vi) Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the consolidated statement of financial position only when the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts, and there is the intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (e) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. (i) Hedge accounting The Group holds forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and other derivative contracts to manage interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. The Group designated derivatives as hedging instruments to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments (a fair value hedge). On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s), including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of a derivative hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge are recognized in profit or loss. The gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value for a derivative hedging instrument and the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in profit or loss in the same line item of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting. Any adjustment arising from gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is amortized to profit or loss from the date the hedge accounting is discontinued. Cash flow hedge When a derivative is designated to hedge the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction that could affect profit or loss, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax, and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss in the periods during which the forecasted transaction occurs. If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the balance in other comprehensive income is recognized immediately in profit or loss. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 103 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Separable embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately only if the following criteria has been met: (a) the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract; (b) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative; and (c) the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of separable embedded derivatives are recognized immediately in profit or loss. (iii) Other derivative financial instruments Changes in the fair value of other derivative financial instrument not designated as a hedging instrument are recognized immediately in profit or loss. (f) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price (the fair value of the consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation technique (day-one profit or loss) is not recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred. Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market, or over the life of the trade (whichever is shorter). (g) Impairment of financial assets A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. However, losses expected as a result of future events, regardless of likelihood, are not recognized. In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. If financial assets have objective evidence that they are impaired, impairment losses should be measured and recognized. (i) Financial assets measured at amortized cost An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of its estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. If it is not practicable to obtain the instrument’s estimated future cash flows, impairment losses would be measured by using prices from any observable current market transactions. The Group can recognize impairment losses directly or establish a provision to cover impairment losses. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized (such as an improvement in the debtor's credit rating), the previously recognized impairment loss shall be reversed either directly or by adjusting an allowance account. (ii) Financial assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset. Such impairment losses shall not be reversed. (iii) Available-for-sale financial assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognized in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been derecognized. Impairment losses recognized in profit or loss for an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale shall not be reversed through profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognized in profit or loss. (h) Property and equipment Property and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property and equipment includes expenditures arising directly from the construction or acquisition of the asset, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. 104 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of property and equipment at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Property and equipment, except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis or a declining-balance basis over estimated useful lives that appropriately reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. A component that is significant compared to the total cost of property and equipment is depreciated over its separate useful life. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property and equipment and are recognized in profit or loss. Depreciation method and the estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: Depreciation method Useful lives (years) Buildings Straight-line method 40 Leasehold improvements Straight-line method 5 Furniture, equipment and vehicles Declining-balance method 4 (i) Intangible assets Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and, subsequently, are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of intangible assets except for goodwill is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible assets is zero. However, as there are no foreseeable limits to the periods over which club memberships are expected to be available for use, this intangible asset is determined as having indefinite useful lives and not amortized. The estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: Useful lives (years) Computer software 4 Contributed acceptances 10 – 20 Usable and profitable donation assets 10 – 20 Amortization periods and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful lives of intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support indefinite useful life assessments for those assets. Changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. (i) Research and development Expenditures on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Development expenditures are capitalized only if development costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Other development expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (ii) Subsequent expenditures Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when they increase the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditures, including expenditures on internally generated goodwill and brands, are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (j) Investment property Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital appreciation is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, investment property is carried at depreciated cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of investment property at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 105 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Investment property except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years as estimated useful lives. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting date and adjusted, if appropriate. The change is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. (k) Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than assets arising from employee benefits, deferred tax assets and non-current assets held for sale, are reviewed at the end of the reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, are tested for impairment annually by comparing their recoverable amount to their carrying amount. The Group estimates the recoverable amount of an individual asset. If it is impossible to measure the individual recoverable amount of an asset, then the Group estimates the recoverable amount of cashgenerating unit (“CGU”). A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. The value in use is estimated by applying a pre-tax discount rate that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU for which estimated future cash flows have not been adjusted, to the estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or CGU. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. (l) Leases The Group classifies and accounts for leases as either a finance or operating lease, depending on the terms. Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. (i) Finance leases At the commencement of the lease term, the Group recognizes as financial assets and financial liabilities in its consolidated statements of financial position, the lower amount of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. Any initial direct costs are added to the amount recognized as an asset. Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rents are charged as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. The depreciable amount of a leased asset is allocated to each accounting period during the period of expected use on a systematic basis consistent with the depreciation policy the lessee adopts for depreciable assets that are owned. If there is no reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is fully depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life. The Group reviews to determine whether the leased asset may be impaired. (ii) Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. (iii) Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease shall be based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets (the asset) and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. At inception or reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and other consideration required by such an arrangement into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. If the Group concludes for a financial lease that it is impracticable to separate the payments reliably, the Group recognizes an asset and a liability at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying asset that was identified as the subject of the lease. Subsequently, the liability shall be reduced as payments are made and an imputed finance charge on the liability recognized using the purchaser's incremental borrowing rate of interest. (m) Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale. In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. The assets or disposal group that are classified as non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. 106 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP The Group recognizes an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of an asset (or disposal group) to fair value less costs to sell, and a gain for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell, up to the cumulative impairment loss previously recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1036 ‘Impairment of Assets’. A non-current asset that is classified as held for sale or part of a disposal group classified as held for sale is not depreciated (or amortized). (n) Non-derivative financial liabilities The Group classifies non-derivative financial liabilities into financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of financial liabilities. The Group recognizes financial liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial liability. (i) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading or designated as such upon initial recognition. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. Upon initial recognition, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (ii) Other financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as other financial liabilities. At the date of initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The Group derecognizes a financial liability from the consolidated statement of financial position when it is extinguished (i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires). (o) Fair value of financial instruments (i) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated at fair value, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument or by using a valuation model. The best evidence of fair value is quoted prices in an active market. If the market for a financial instrument is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using a valuation technique. Valuation techniques include using recent arm's length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if available, as reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models. If there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, the Group uses that technique. Periodically, the Group calibrates the valuation technique and tests it for validity using prices from any observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on any available observable market data. Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best information available, for example by reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analytical techniques. (ii) Classification and level of disclosure for fair value K-IFRS No. 1107 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ requires the Group to classify its financial instruments held at fair value according to a hierarchy that reflects the significance of observable market inputs. The classification of a financial instrument is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below. Level Description Level 1 Financial instruments are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. If there are no quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets, financial instruments classified as Level 2 have been valued using models Level 2 whose inputs are observable in an active market. Financial instruments are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market Level 3 data (unobservable inputs). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 107 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value Deposits, loans and receivables The estimated fair values of money market deposits and deposits with a residual maturity of less than 6 months are the carrying amounts. The estimated fair values of non impaired deposits, loans and receivables are the present value of contractual cash flows discounted at current market rates by factoring in the default rates and credit spreads. The estimated fair values of individually assessed impaired deposits, loans and receivable are the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. The estimated fair values of collectively assessed impaired deposits, loans and receivables are the carrying amounts less allowances for loan losses. Held-to-maturity financial assets The fair values are the quoted prices in the market or fair values evaluated by a credible evaluator. If there is no such information, their fair values are estimated by using observable market prices of financial assets with similar credit level, maturity and profit rate. Depository liabilities The carrying amounts of non-interest bearing deposits and deposits with no stated maturity or a residual maturity less than 6 months are assumed to be fair values. The estimated fair value of an interest bearing deposit is the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate (market rate) of a recently issued deposit with the similar maturity. Borrowings The carrying amounts of borrowings with readjustable term for floating rate or a contract maturity less than 6 months are assumed to be fair values. The estimated fair value of borrowings not quoted in an active market is the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate (market rate) of a recently issued borrowing with the similar maturity. (p) Employee benefits (i) Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are due to be settled within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during an accounting period, the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. (ii) Other long-term employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are settled beyond 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service, and include the cost of training overseas which the Group grants to long-serving employees. The calculation method of the Group’s obligation is consistent with defined benefit plans. (iii) Retirement benefits: defined contribution plans When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the Group recognizes the contribution payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the Group recognizes that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to a reduction in future payments or a cash refund. (iv) Retirement benefits: defined benefit plans The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in OCI. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss. When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs. 108 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (v) Termination benefits Termination benefits are recognized as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognized as an expense if the Group has made an offer of voluntary redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. If benefits are payable more than 12 months after the reporting period, then they are discounted to their present value. (q) Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances are taken into account in reaching the best estimate of a provision. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined at the present value of the expected future cash flows. Where some or all of the expenditures required to settle a provision are expected to be reimbursed by another party, the reimbursement shall be recognized when, and only when, it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received if the entity settles the obligation. The reimbursement shall be treated as a separate asset. Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. A provision shall be used only for expenditures for which the provision was originally recognized. Financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at their fair values and, if not designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are subsequently measured at the higher of: the amount of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period ; and the amount initially recognized less, cumulative amortization recognized on a straight-line basis over the guarantee period. (r) Foreign currencies (i) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency using the reporting date’s exchange rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognized in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognized in other comprehensive income. Nonmonetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. (ii) Foreign operations If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign operation’s functional currency, the financial statements of the foreign operation are translated into the presentation currency using the following methods: The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, whose functional currency is not the currency of a hyperinflationary economy, are translated to presentation currency at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to functional currency at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in the translation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant proportion of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interest. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. Foreign exchange gains or losses arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and which in substance is considered to form part of the net investment in the foreign operation, are recognized in other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. (s) Equity capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of ordinary shares and share options are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 109 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements When the Group repurchases its share capital, the amount of the consideration paid is recognized as a deduction from equity and classified as treasury shares. The profits or losses from the purchase, disposal, reissue, or retirement of treasury shares are not recognized as current profit or loss. If the Group acquires and retains treasury shares, the consideration paid or received is directly recognized in equity. (t) Share-based payment transactions The Group has granted shares or share options to its employees and other parties. For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group measures the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value of the liability at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period. (u) Finance income and finance costs (i) Interest Interest income and expense are recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments and receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or liability (or, where appropriate, a shorter period) to the carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates future cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, but not future credit losses. The calculation of the effective interest rate includes all fees and points paid or received that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Transaction costs include incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial asset or liability. (ii) Fees and commission Fees and commission income and expense that are integral to the effective interest rate on a financial asset or liability are included in the measurement of the effective interest rate. Other fees and commission income, including account servicing fees, investment management fees, sales commission, placement fees and syndication fees, are recognized as the related services are performed. When a loan commitment is not expected to result in the draw-down of a loan, the related loan commitment fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the commitment period. Other fees and commission expense relate mainly to transaction and service fees, which are expensed as the services are received. (iii) Dividends The Group recognizes dividend income when the shareholder's right to receive payment is established. (v) Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. (i) Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit for the period since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the temporary differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods, and non-taxable or nondeductible items from the accounting profit. (ii) Deferred tax The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. The Group recognizes a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Group recognizes a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduces the carrying amount to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. 110 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the related current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. (w) Accounting for trust accounts The Group accounts for trust accounts separately from its bank accounts under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act. Funds transferred between a bank account and a trust account is recognized as borrowings from trust accounts in other liabilities with fees for managing the accounts recognized as non-interest income by the Group. (x) Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise convertible notes and share options granted to employees. (y) New standards and interpretation not yet adopted The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2013, and the Group has not early adopted them. Management believes the impact of the amendments on the Group’s consolidated financial statements is not significant. (i) Amendments to K-IFRS No. 1032, ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ The amendments clarified the application guidance related to ‘offsetting a financial asset and a financial liability’. The amendment is mandatorily effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2014 with earlier application permitted. 4. Operating Segments The Group has Procurement Division, Operational Division, Strategic Business Division, Management Support Division, Business Support Division, and conducts interdivisional and intradivisional performance evaluations. An operating segment has been identified as a component of the Group on the basis of revenues and expenses, segment performance evaluations and resource allocation decisions made by the chief operation decision maker. Reportable segments are based on economic characteristics of the services provided. The five reportable segments are as follows: Description Business area Corporate Procurement and financial services for corporate Individuals Procurement and financial services for individuals Public Procurement and financial services for public Securities (including stocks) investment and operation, business acquisitions and sales of public debt, derivatives design and operation, Money market center work related to foreign exchange Others Segments other than the above including trust segment and head office supporting segments SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 111 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Information about reportable segments as of and for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Money market Consolidated Corporate Individuals Public Others Subtotal Adjustments center amount Net interest income \ 343,844 294,75 85,300 190,668 12,898 927,460 14,210 941,670 Interest income 1,015,199 782,039 253,135 1,328,548 98,302 3,477,223 (1,794,655) 1,682,568 (Interest income from external 857,341 406,311 88,416 266,496 79,068 1,697,632 (15,064) 1,682,568 customers) Interest expense 671,355 487,289 167,835 1,137,880 85,404 2,549,763 (1,808,865) 740,898 (Interest expense to external 199,069 282,755 107,672 118,568 47,893 755,957 (15,059) 740,898 customers) Fee & commission Income, net 6,878 51,294 6,878 6,472 1,032 72,554 187 72,741 Other financial Income, net (*1) 2,810 5,648 2,810 40,490 11,678 63,436 4,448 67,884 67,884 Bad debt expense (154,764) (154,764) Other operating loss, net (41,294) (267,935) (41,294) (44,971) (2,237) (397,731) (190,795) (588,526) Operating Income \ 312,238 83,757 53,694 192,659 23,371 665,719 (326,714) 339,005 Total assets \ 17,219,081 8,981,271 1,713,740 6,810,485 5,543,975 40,268,552 (2,690,730) 37,577,822 Total liabilities \ 11,855,564 12,169,540 4,396,799 5,117,414 1,510,436 35,049,753 (470,468) 34,579,285 (In millions of won) 2012 Money market Consolidated Corporate Individuals Public Others Subtotal Adjustments center amount Net interest income (loss) \ 360,082 307,720 98,290 172,190 (9,054) 929,228 (2,764) 926,464 Interest income 1,184,312 885,426 289,001 1,765,768 50,799 4,175,306 (2,459,154) 1,716,152 (Interest income from external 848,850 419,698 110,279 305,294 40,779 1,724,900 (8,748) 1,716,152 customers) Interest expense 824,230 577,706 190,711 1,593,578 59,853 3,246,078 (2,456,390) 789,688 (Interest expense to external 231,788 291,701 113,978 132,400 28,569 798,436 (8,748) 789,688 customers) Fee & commission Income, net 37,854 66,150 11,245 2,310 3,737 121,296 (47,790) 73,506 Other financial Income, net (*1) 21,160 2,867 890 43,854 19,634 88,405 20,594 108,999 Bad debt expense 163,914 163,914 Other operating loss, net (181,905) (302,198) (81,764) (31,668) (14,660) (612,195) (287,709) (899,904) Operating Income (loss) \ 237,191 74,539 28,661 186,686 (343) 526,734 (153,755) 372,979 Total assets \ 16,453,332 8,880,754 1,651,177 6,178,472 3,969,038 37,132,773 (2,670,067) 34,462,706 Total liabilities \ 11,127,048 11,827,842 3,928,870 4,427,281 1,125,961 32,437,002 (505,661) 31,931,341 (*1) Other financial income, net, (excluding interest income/expense) includes net income on financial assets held-fortrading, net income on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, net income on available-forsale financial assets, net income on held-to-maturity financial assets, net income on hedging derivative instruments, net income on hedged assets, impairment losses and reversal of impairment loss on financial assets, net income on foreign exchange and net disposal income on loans and receivables. (*2) Adjustments are mainly comprised of internal transactions between the operating segments such as interest income and expense that are adjusted by headquarter, and common expenses incurred which are not allocable for performance evaluation purpose such as bad debt expenses. 112 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 5. Cash and due from Banks (a) Cash and due from banks Cash and due from banks as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Cash and cash equivalents \ 364,008 364,008 394,877 394,877 The Bank of Korea 964,761 964,761 657,510 657,510 Commercial banks 7,681 7,681 1,200 1,200 Due from banks in won Non-monetary financial institutions 90,000 90,000 50,000 50,000 Others 3,939 3,939 6,681 6,681 Subtotal 1,066,381 1,066,381 715,391 715,391 The Bank of Korea 18,127 18,127 21,681 21,681 Commercial banks 9,452 9,452 12,770 12,770 Due from banks in foreign currencies Overseas banks countries 38,916 38,916 39,258 39,258 Subtotal 66,495 66,495 73,709 73,709 Total \ 1,496,884 1,496,884 1,183,977 1,183,977 All due from banks amounts mature within 12 months. (b) Restricted due from banks Restricted due from banks as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Reserve deposits in won The Bank of Korea \ 884,761 627,510 The Bank of Korea 18,127 21,681 Reserve deposits in foreign currencies Overseas banks 10,781 10,168 Total \ 913,669 659,359 6. Financial Assets Held for Trading (except Trading Derivative Instruments) (a) Financial assets held for trading Financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Fair value Loss on valuation Book value Fair value Loss on valuation Equity securities \ 19,400 15,914 (3,486) 35,438 34,936 (502) 225,302 224,856 (446) 201,637 201,619 (18) Debt securities \ 244,702 240,770 (3,932) 237,075 236,555 (520) The amounts of financial assets held for trading except for listed equity securities which mature within 12 months are \204,223 million and \145,254 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of financial assets held for trading except for listed equity securities which mature after 12 months are \20,633 million and \56,365 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 113 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy financial assets held for trading Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities \ 15,914 15,914 Debt securities 224,856 224,856 \ 15,914 224,856 240,770 (In millions of won) 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities \ 34,936 34,936 Debt securities 201,619 201,619 \ 34,936 201,619 236,555 7. Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (a) Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (In millions of won) The Group designated hybrid securities containing embedded derivatives as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 2013 2012 Book value Book value Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of Decemberbefore 31, 2013 and Fair 2012Value Gain (loss) on are as follows: Gain on before Fair Value valuation valuation valuation valuation Equity securities Redeemable preferred stocks \ 137,093 131,621 (5,472) 129,972 137,093 7,121 Debt securities Credit linked securities 10,366 10,533 167 10,126 10,521 395 \ 147,459 142,154 (5,305) 140,098 147,614 7,516 All financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2013 except for equity securities mature within 12 months. All financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2012 except for equity securities which mature after 12 months. (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss The classification and the fair value hierarchy of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities \ 131,621 131,621 Debt securities 10,533 10,533 \ 142,154 142,154 (In millions of won) 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities \ 137,093 137,093 Debt securities 10,521 10,521 \ 147,614 147,614 114 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (c) Changes in level 3 Changes in level 3 of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Equity securities Debt securities Total Beginning balance \ 137,093 10,521 147,614 Gain (loss) on valuation (5,472) 167 (5,305) Effect of exchange rate (155) (155) Ending balance \ 131,621 10,533 142,154 (In millions of won) 2012 Equity securities Debt securities Total Beginning balance \ 204,650 10,903 215,553 Gain on valuation 7,121 395 7,516 Effect of exchange rate (777) (777) Disposal (74,678) (74,678) Ending balance \ 137,093 10,521 147,614 (d) Quantitative information of level 3 Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring level 3 fair values of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: Valuation method Unobservable inputs Range Equity securities DCF method Discount rate 2.98% ~ 8.47% (e) Sensitivity analysis of level 3 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is performed by dividing the value changes of financial instruments affected by the changes of unobservable inputs into advantageous and disadvantageous changes. If fair values are affected by two or more inputs, changes are calculated by assuming the most advantageous or the most disadvantageous situation. Sensitivity to changes in inputs of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Profit or loss Other comprehensive income or loss Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Equity securities \ 6,104 (3,161) (f) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss There is no deferred day-one profit or loss as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 115 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 8. Available-for-sale Financial Assets (a) Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value before Gain (loss) on Book value before Gain on Fair Value Fair Value valuation valuation valuation valuation Listed equity securities \ 73,379 59,712 (13,667) 63,767 48,836 (14,931) Unlisted equity securities 227,988 257,267 29,279 221,013 253,395 32,382 Subtotal 301,367 316,979 15,612 284,780 302,231 17,451 Debt securities Government bonds 391,915 387,886 (4,029) 91,053 90,973 (80) Equity Financial debentures 300,173 299,683 (490) 300,082 302,326 2,244 securities Corporate bonds 330,030 330,010 (20) 300,449 301,514 1,065 Available-for-sale securities in foreign currencies 114,938 119,120 4,182 73,028 76,687 3,659 Others 844,193 840,654 (3,539) 753,283 758,061 4,778 Subtotal 1,981,249 1,977,353 (3,896) 1,517,895 1,529,561 11,666 Beneficiary certificate 292,574 294,016 1,442 166,604 162,480 (4,124) Total \ 2,575,190 2,588,348 13,158 1,969,279 1,994,272 24,993 The amounts of available-for-sale financial assets except for equity securities which mature within 12 months are \479,737 million and \310,959 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of available-for-sale financial assets except for equity securities which mature after 12 months are \1,791,632 million and \1,381,082 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The gain or loss on valuation includes accumulated loss on valuation of fair value hedged items amounting to \9,862 million as of December 31, 2013 and accumulated loss on valuation of fair value hedged items amounting to \12,649 million as of December 31, 2012, respectively (b) Classification and fair value hierarhy of available-for-sale financial assets The classification and the fair value hierarchy of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities \ 60,075 256,904 316,979 Debt securities 413,681 1,549,531 14,141 1,977,353 Beneficiary certificates 121,177 172,839 294,016 \ 594,933 1,722,370 271,045 2,588,348 (In millions of won) 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities \ 47,192 255,039 302,231 Debt securities 121,221 1,394,737 13,603 1,529,561 Beneficiary certificates 28,512 133,968 162,480 \ 196,925 1,528,705 268,642 1,994,272 116 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (c) Changes in level 3 Changes in level 3 of available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Equity securities Debt securities Total Beginning balance \ 255,039 13,603 268,642 Realized loss (impairment loss) (682) (682) Unrealized gain (loss) (2,956) 750 (2,206) Acquisition 22,125 22,125 Disposal (14,636) (14,636) Transfer (1,986) (1,986) Effect of exchange rate (212) (212) Ending balance \ 256,904 14,141 271,045 (In millions of won) 2012 Equity securities Debt securities Total Beginning balance \ 252,978 9,803 262,781 Realized loss (impairment loss) (13,231) (13,231) Unrealized gain (loss) (1,366) 4,622 3,256 Acquisition 28,810 28,810 Disposal (11,473) (11,473) Transfer (679) (679) Effect of exchange rate (822) (822) Ending balance \ 255,039 13,603 268,642 (d) Quantitative information of level 3 Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring level 3 fair values of availableforsale financial assets as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: Valuation method Unobservable inputs Range Equity securities DCF method, etc Discount rate 4.03% ~ 26.61% Growth rate 0% Liquidating value 0% (e) Sensitivity analysis of level 3 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is performed by dividing the value changes of financial instruments affected by the changes of unobservable inputs into advantageous and disadvantageous changes. If fair values are affected by two or more inputs, changes are calculated by assuming the most advantageous or the most disadvantageous situation. Sensitivity to changes in inputs of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Profit or loss Other comprehensive income or loss Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Equity securities(*1) \ 25,470 (8,946) (*1) Fair values of certain equity securities such as PEF are measured by the asset approach method. Fair value changes of such equity securities are excluded as sensitivity calculation by changes in inputs is practically impossible. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 117 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss There is no deferred day-one profit or loss as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. (g) Unrealized gain (loss) Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Equity securities Debt securities Beneficiary certificates Total Beginning balance \ 30,260 11,506 (4,124) 37,642 Realized gains disposition of securities (1,073) (6,690) (418) (8,181) Unrealized loss (3,642) (8,783) 5,984 (6,441) Ending balance 25,545 (3,967) 1,442 23,020 Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) (6,182) 960 (349) (5,571) Net balance \ 19,363 (3,007) 1,093 17,449 (In millions of won) 2012 Equity securities Debt securities Beneficiary certificates Total Beginning balance \ 35,809 4,882 (10,297) 30,394 Realized losses(gains) on disposition of securities (3,473) (5,453) 12,044 3,118 Unrealized gain (loss) (2,076) 12,077 (5,871) 4,130 Ending balance 30,260 11,506 (4,124) 37,642 Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) (7,323) (2,784) 998 (9,109) Net balance \ 22,937 8,722 (3,126) 28,533 (h) Impairment losses Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2013, and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Amount before Amount after Amount before Amount after Impairment loss Impairment loss impairment impairment impairment impairment Equity securities \ 2,172 1,490 682 11,746 1,986 9,760 (i) Available-for-sale securities carried at cost Available-for-sale securities carried at cost as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Megabowlcity \ 1,800 Korea Asset Management Corp. 1,570 Daegu Dream Education 999 999 Korea Enterprise Data Co., Ltd. 785 785 Chungjung Sangju Co.,Ltd. 706 706 Evergreenkeanggi.Co., Ltd. 692 692 Evergreencampus.Co., Ltd. 674 674 Green Jang Ryang Co., Ltd. 648 648 Daegu Exhibition&Convention Center Ltd. 615 615 A Jin Paper Co., Ltd. 563 563 Nam Yang Kwang-Jin C&G., Co., Ltd. 520 520 Yeongdeok Enviro 516 516 Others 5,270 6,105 \ 11,988 16,193 118 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Gain on disposal of available-for-sale securities carried at cost for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Gain on disposal Book value Gain on disposal Badbank Harmony \ 10 141 17 336 A Jin Paper Co., Ltd. 188 13 \ 10 141 205 349 Impairment loss on available-for-sale securities carried at cost for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Gain on disposal Book value Gain on disposal Gyeongju Culture and Arts Center \ 105 Union ARK Development Co., Ltd. 1,815 \ 1,920 9. Held-to-maturity Financial Assets (a) Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Face value Acquisition cost Amortized cost Fair value Government bonds \ 2,698,142 2,552,955 2,642,175 2,703,080 Financial debentures 150,000 150,121 150,015 151,450 Debt securities Corporate bonds 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,373 Others 1,569,839 1,577,113 1,573,052 1,591,713 \ 4,437,981 4,300,189 4,385,242 4,466,616 (In millions of won) 2012 Face value Acquisition cost Amortized cost Fair value Government bonds \ 2,519,860 2,415,918 2,444,492 2,539,941 Financial debentures 250,000 250,031 250,129 255,283 Debt securities Corporate bonds 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,545 Others 1,709,574 1,714,094 1,713,901 1,748,618 \ 4,499,434 4,400,043 4,428,522 4,564,387 The amounts of held-to-maturity financial assets, which mature within 12 months are \942,220 million and \623,995 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of held-to-maturity financial assets, which mature after 12 months are \3,443,022 million and \3,804,527 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. (b) Transferred held-to-maturity financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety Transferred held to maturity financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Held-to-maturity financial assets Related liabilities Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Net position Securities sold under repurchase agreement \ 538,694 551,656 481,227 482,418 69,238 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 119 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 10. Collateralized Securities Investment securities pledged to various institutions as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Book value of Purpose Collateralized value Total held-to-maturity securities Bank of Korea settlements \ 130,000 128,737 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Bank of Korea daylight overdraft 255,000 249,403 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Bank of Korea borrowings 700,000 682,675 The Bank of Korea Borrowings in foreign currencies 80,000 80,170 Industrial Bank of Korea Derivatives transactions 49,879 48,128 Samsung Futures Inc., KB Futures Co., Ltd. Repurchase agreement 538,000 538,694 Korea Securities Depository Others 235 245 Korea Securities Depository \ 1,753,114 1,728,052 11. Structured Securities Structured securities as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In thousands of US dollar) Type Structured form Face amount Book value Inherent risk Financial assets at fair value Interests may not be paid in the case that operating Credit linked securities $ 10,000 9,981 through profit or loss performance declines, but the principal is guaranteed. Available for sale financial Interests may not be paid in the case that operating Collateral bond for loan 10,000 13,400 assets performance declines. $ 20,000 23,381 12. Investments in Associates (a) Ownership Ownership on associates as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Number of shares Acquisition Associate (*2) Relation Reporting date Ownership Net asset value Book value owned cost(*1) Daegu FC (*3) Associate 2013.12.31 300,000 9.20 % \ 516 233 233 (In millions of won) 2012 Number of shares Acquisition Associate (*2) Relation Reporting date Ownership Net asset value Book value owned cost(*1) Daegu FC (*3) Associate 2012.12.31 300,000 9.20 % \ 516 230 230 (*1) Associate’s acquisition cost and book value are the carrying amount under previous K-GAAP on the date of transition to K-IFRS. (*2) Interests in Consus BTL Private Special Asset Fund 1 is more than 20%(29.9%), but it was not classified as an associate as the Group cannot exercise significant influence over the investment advisory committee of Consus BTL Private Special Asset Fund 1 by an agreement. (*3) Interests in Daegu FC is less than 20%, but it was classified as an associate as the Group can exercise significant influence over Daegu FC through sharing of management. 120 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (b) Equity method (In millions of won) 2013 Book Value as of Gain on equity method Book Value as of January 1, 2013 accounting December 31, 2013 Daegu FC \ 230 3 233 (In millions of won) 2012 Book Value as of Gain on equity method Book Value as of January 1, 2013 accounting December 31, 2013 Daegu FC \ 264 (34) 230 (c) Summarized financial information Summarized financial information of associates as of and for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Assets Liabilities Gross revenue Net income Daegu FC \ 5,254 2,720 9,319 35 (In millions of won) 2012 Assets Liabilities Gross revenue Net income Daegu FC \ 5,533 3,034 9,126 (373) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 121 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13. Loans and Receivables (a) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Fair value (*1) Amortized cost Fair value (*1) Loans Loans in won Loans to enterprises \ 17,300,745 17,385,906 15,241,345 15,326,612 Loans to households 6,686,571 6,695,149 6,369,296 6,378,386 Loans to public sectors and others 439,696 440,875 405,280 406,020 Subtotal 24,427,012 24,521,930 22,015,921 22,111,018 Loans in foreign currencies Loans to enterprises 533,111 532,944 628,551 628,125 Loans to other banks 86,082 86,082 99,317 99,317 Finance lease receivables 316,424 315,186 182,106 182,161 Others Bill bought 19,167 19,167 27,533 27,533 Bill bought in foreign currencies 117,158 117,158 104,685 104,685 Payments on guarantees 405 405 911 902 Credit card accounts 397,991 397,616 423,067 422,699 Bonds purchased under resale agreements 100,000 100,000 206,235 206,235 Call loans 370,811 375,032 498,062 498,062 Privately placed debentures 153,402 156,298 275,839 279,555 Privately placed public loan 256,864 256,867 277,624 283,294 Other loans 41,632 41,251 17,936 17,841 Subtotal 1,457,430 1,463,794 1,831,892 1,840,806 Subtotal 26,820,059 26,919,936 24,757,787 24,861,427 Receivables Guaranty money 131,063 127,714 132,134 129,258 Accounts receivable 1,096,985 1,096,985 898,547 898,547 Accrued income 299,773 299,773 257,224 257,224 Other receivables 62,932 62,932 127,586 127,586 Subtotal 1,590,753 1,587,404 1,415,491 1,412,615 Allowance for loan losses (293,424) (293,424) (294,956) (294,956) Present value discount (5,737) (5,737) (4,825) (4,825) Deferred loan origination fees (6,335) (6,335) (5,915) (5,915) Deferred loan origination costs 28,815 28,815 19,967 19,967 Total \ 28,134,131 28,230,659 25,887,549 25,988,313 (*1) Fair values are classified as level 3. The amounts of loans and receivables, which mature within 12 months are \15,976,898 million and \16,557,566 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of loans and receivables, which mature after 12 months are \12,433,914 million and \9,615,712 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 122 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (b) Loans in won Loans in won as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Loans to enterprises Operation loans \ 10,192,871 9,397,199 Facility loans 7,107,874 5,844,146 Subtotal 17,300,745 15,241,345 Loans to households Loans to households Operation loans 4,080,096 3,880,885 Housing loans 2,606,475 2,488,411 Subtotal 6,686,571 6,369,296 Loans to public sectors and others Operation loans 131,359 163,519 Facility loans 308,337 241,761 Subtotal 439,696 405,280 Total \ 24,427,012 22,015,921 (c) Loans in foreign currencies Loans in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Loans to enterprises Operation loans \ 119,780 89,715 Facility loans 177,211 276,427 Domestic import usance 236,120 262,409 \ 533,111 628,551 (d) Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Total investment in a lease Minimum lease Unguaranteed Unearned Net investment payments residual value Interest in a lease Within 1 year \ 128,364 15,261 113,103 Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 213,557 13,543 200,014 Exceed 5 years 32 2 30 Total \ 341,953 28,806 313,147 (In millions of won) 2012 Total investment in a lease Minimum lease Unguaranteed Unearned Net investment payments residual value Interest in a lease Within 1 year \ 76,065 9,484 66,581 Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 123,792 8,442 115,350 Exceed 5 years Total \ 199,857 17,926 181,931 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 123 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (e) Transferred loans that are derecognized in their entirety with continuing involvement Transferred loans that are derecognized in their entirety with continuing involvement as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Cash outflows to repurchase Carrying amount of continuing Type of continuing involvement Maximum exposure to loss transferred (derecognized) assets involvement(Provision) Collateral endorsement \ 129 129 The maturity analysis of the undiscounted cash outflows that would or may be required to repurchase the derecognized financial assets or other amounts payable to the transferee in respect of the transferred assets is as follows: (In millions of won) Maturity of continuing involvement Type of continuing involvement Less than 1 month Collateral endorsement \ 129 14. Allowance for Loan Losses Changes in allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Beginning balance \ 294,956 314,336 Provision for losses 154,082 154,119 Collection of loans written-off 33,253 48,350 Disposal of loans (3,913) (4,286) Write-offs (163,242) (192,520) Unwinding effect (16,746) (20,366) Effect of exchange rate (250) (689) Others (4,716) (3,988) Ending balance \ 293,424 294,956 15. Deferred Loan Origination Fees and Costs (a) Deferred loan origination fees Changes in deferred loan origination fees for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Beginning balance \ 5,915 6,334 Increase 4,382 1,193 Decrease (3,962) (1,612) Ending balance \ 6,335 5,915 (b) Deferred loan origination costs Changes in deferred loan origination costs for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Beginning balance \ 19,967 12,375 Increase 34,006 29,373 Decrease (25,158) (21,781) Ending balance \ 28,815 19,967 124 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 16. Restructured Loans Restructured loans under workout plans or other similar restructuring programs as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won, except the number of companies) 2013 The number of Balance before Balance after Allowance companies restructuring restructuring Workout 9 \ 138,329 (30,179) 108,150 Restructuring, industrial rationalization 19 28,568 (3,100) 25,468 28 \ 166,897 (33,279) 133,618 (In millions of won, except the number of companies) 2013 The number of Balance before Balance after Allowance companies restructuring restructuring Workout 7 \ 85,530 (26,195) 59,335 Restructuring, industrial rationalization 18 20,272 (3,169) 17,103 25 \ 105,802 (29,364) 76,438 17. Derivative Instruments (a) Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total Currency related Forward \ 4,871,757 4,871,757 5,422,209 5,422,209 Swap 6,087 6,087 Subtotal 4,871,757 4,871,757 5,428,296 5,428,296 Interest rate related Swap 342,973 342,973 5,356 5,356 Stock related Option bought 158,456 61,313 219,769 141,059 67,616 208,675 Option sold 145,754 29,891 175,645 114,998 36,194 151,192 Subtotal 304,210 91,204 395,414 256,057 103,810 359,867 Total \ 5,175,967 434,177 5,610,144 5,684,353 109,166 5,793,519 (b) Valuation on trading and hedging derivative instruments Valuation on trading and hedging derivative instruments as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Valuation gains (losses) Fair value (trading) Fair value (hedging) Trading (through Hedging (through Total Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities profit and loss) profit and loss) <Currency related> Forward \ 20,689 20,689 56,437 35,637 <Interest rate related> Swap (8,054) (8,054) 44 7,945 <Stock related> Option (307) (5,897) (6,204) 6,089 2,297 18,826 2,517 Reserve for credit risk adjustment 19,731 (50) 19,681 (10,376) (39) (183) (7) Total \ 40,113 (14,001) 26,112 52,150 37,895 18,687 10,455 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 125 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (In millions of won) 2012 Valuation gains (losses) Fair value (trading) Fair value (hedging) Trading (through Hedging (through Total Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities profit and loss) profit and loss) <Currency related> Forward \ 46,695 46,695 73,941 27,407 Swap 19 19 237 237 Subtotal 46,714 46,714 74,178 27,644 <Interest rate related> Swap (161) (161) 164 <Stock related> Option 570 6,746 7,316 11,786 3,182 24,561 933 Reserve for credit risk adjustment 41,791 (21) 41,770 (30,068) (126) Total \ 89,075 6,564 95,639 55,896 30,826 24,435 1,097 (c) Gain (loss) on valuation of hedged assets Gain (loss) on valuation of hedged assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Gain on valuation Loss on valuation Gain on valuation Loss on valuation Available-for-sale financial assets \ 6,575 3,788 192 6,745 Debentures 8,344 Total \ 14,919 3,788 192 6,745 (d) Classification and fair value hierarchy of derivatives The classification and the fair value hierarchy of derivatives for fair value measurement as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Trading derivatives instrument assets(*1) \ 56,437 6,089 62,526 Trading derivatives instrument liabilities(*1) 35,637 2,297 37,934 Hedging derivatives instrument assets(*1) 43 18,827 18,870 Hedging derivatives instrument liabilities(*1) 7,945 2,517 10,462 (*1) Credit-risk adjustments are not reflected. (In millions of won) 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Trading derivatives instrument assets(*1) \ 74,178 11,786 85,964 Trading derivatives instrument liabilities 27,644 3,182 30,826 Hedging derivatives instrument assets(*1) 24,561 24,561 Hedging derivatives instrument liabilities 164 933 1,097 (*1) Credit-risk adjustments are not reflected. 126 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (e) Changes in level 3 Changes in level 3 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Trading derivatives Trading derivatives Hedging derivatives Hedging derivatives instrument assets(*1) instrument liabilities(*1) instrument assets(*1) instrument liabilities(*1) Beginning balance \ 11,786 3,182 24,561 933 Gain (loss) (623) (316) (5,771) 126 Acquisition 4,765 2,826 Disposal 2,613 2,391 Settlement (9,839) (3,182) (2,789) (933) Ending balance \ 6,089 2,297 18,827 2,517 (In millions of won) 2012 Trading derivatives Trading derivatives Hedging derivatives Hedging derivatives instrument assets(*1) instrument liabilities(*1) instrument assets(*1) instrument liabilities(*1) Beginning balance \ 11,365 3,157 24,967 704 Gain (loss) 875 305 3,680 (3,066) Acquisition 2,931 4,361 Disposal 2,877 3,999 Settlement (3,385) (3,157) (8,447) (704) Ending balance \ 11,786 3,182 24,561 933 (*1) Credit-risk adjustments are not reflected. (f) Quantitative information of level 3 Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring level 3 fair values of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: Valuation method Unobservable inputs Range Trading derivatives instrument Binomial model, etc. Stock price volatility 6.80% ~ 32.45% Hedging derivatives instrument Binomial model, etc. Stock price volatility 17.58% ~ 23.20% (g) Sensitivity analysis of level 3 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is performed by dividing the value changes of financial instruments affected by the changes of unobservable inputs into advantageous and disadvantageous changes. If fair values are affected by two or more inputs, changes are calculated by assuming the most advantageous or the most disadvantageous situation. (In millions of won) Profit or loss Other comprehensive income or loss Advantageous Disadvantageous Advantageous Disadvantageous change change change change Trading derivatives instrument \ 178 (118) Hedging derivatives instrument 1,493 (1,507) (h) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss There is no deferred day-one profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 127 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 18. Property and Equipment (a) Property and equipment Property and equipment as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Acquisition Accumulated Net book Acquisition Accumulated Net book cost depreciation value cost depreciation value Land \ 146,744 146,744 146,132 146,132 Buildings 183,853 (55,038) 128,815 179,903 (50,395) 129,508 Leasehold improvement 37,321 (30,083) 7,238 35,393 (27,279) 8,114 Furniture, equipment and vehicles 180,093 (151,884) 28,209 177,662 (150,840) 26,822 Construction-inprogress 6,851 6,851 787 787 \ 554,862 (237,005) 317,857 539,877 (228,514) 311,363 (b) Changes in property and equipment Changes in property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Beginning Acquisition Disposal Depreciation Others Ending balance balance Land \ 146,132 612 146,744 Buildings 129,508 3,730 (4,514) 91 128,815 Leasehold improvement 8,114 1,727 (2,807) 204 7,238 Furniture, equipment and vehicles 26,822 16,214 (75) (17,248) 2,496 28,209 Construction-inprogress 787 6,902 (838) 6,851 \ 311,363 28,573 (75) (24,569) 2,565 317,857 (In millions of won) 2012 Beginning Acquisition Disposal Depreciation Others Ending balance balance Land \ 130,567 15,565 146,132 Buildings 131,240 3,225 (4,438) (519) 129,508 Leasehold improvement 7,256 4,037 (3,204) 25 8,114 Furniture, equipment and vehicles 29,743 14,501 (67) (17,355) 26,822 Construction-inprogress 317 529 (59) 787 \ 299,123 22,292 (67) (24,997) 15,012 311,363 (c) Assets insured Assets insured as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Type Insurance amount Insurance period Insurance company Buildings Package insurance \ 165,983 2013.01.01 ~ 2013.12.31 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Leasehold improvement Package insurance 9,040 2013.01.01 ~ 2013.12.31 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Leasehold improvement Fire insurance 83 2013.05.24 ~ 2014.05.24 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Furniture, equipment and vehicles Package insurance 26,778 2013.01.01 ~ 2013.12.31 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Furniture, equipment and vehicles Package insurance 3 2013.05.24 ~ 2014.05.24 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. \ 201,887 128 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (d) Operating leases Operating leases revenues and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Operating lease revenues Operating lease expenses Operating lease revenues Operating lease expenses Within 1 year \ 540 3,200 429 3,810 Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 827 4,518 837 5,845 \ 1,367 7,718 1,266 9,655 19. Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets for the years ended December 31,􀙻2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Beginning Impairment Others Ending Additions Amortization balance loss (*1)(*2) balance Goodwill \ (2,728) 11,312 8,584 Software(*3) 39,884 16,774 (18,897) 3,619 41,380 Contributed acceptance assets 8,931 (845) 8,086 Membership 6,015 518 (16) 15 6,532 Others(*4) 18,896 10,711 (7,753) 5,002 26,856 \ 73,726 28,003 (27,495) (2,744) 19,948 91,438 (*1) The Group recognized goodwill of \11,312 million and other intangible assets of \1,776 million, as a result of merger between Kardnet and U Payment. (*2) Software of \3,102 million and other intangible assets of \3,226 million that are succeeded as a result of merger between Kardnet and U Payment, and gain on translation of foreign operations of \15 million are included. (*3) Software of \517 million was transferred from construction-in-progress. (*4) Others consist of usable and profitable donation assets of \24,885 million. (In millions of won) 2012 Beginning Impairment Ending Additions Amortization Others balance loss balance Software(*1) \ 47,212 9,222 (16,609) 59 39,884 Contributed acceptance assets 9,776 (845) 8,931 Membership(*2) 4,551 1,477 (13) 6,015 Others(*3) 18,841 7,061 (7,006) 18,896 \ 80,380 17,760 (24,460) (13) 59 73,726 (*1) Software of \59 million was transferred from construction-in-progress. (*2) Impairment loss of \13 million was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2012 respectively, due to a significant decline in its fair value. (*3) Others consist of usable and profitable donation assets of \18,417 million. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 129 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 20. Investment Property (a) Investment property Changes in investment property for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Beginning balance Disposal Transfer Depreciation Ending balance Land \ 55,470 (612) 54,858 Buildings 32,596 (348) (91) (1,204) 30,953 \ 88,066 (348) (703) (1,204) 85,811 (In millions of won) 2012 Beginning balance Disposal Transfer Depreciation Ending balance Land \ 55,434 36 55,470 Buildings 32,206 1,068 519 (1,197) 32,596 \ 87,640 1,068 555 (1,197) 88,066 (b) Book value and fair value of investment property Book value and fair value of investment property as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Fair value Difference Book value Fair value Difference Land \ 54,858 67,155 12,297 55,470 66,895 11,425 Buildings 30,953 30,261 (692) 32,596 31,609 (987) \ 85,811 97,416 11,605 88,066 98,504 10,438 The fair value of investment property is determined by factoring in the price of similar real estate transactions by independent real estate appraisal experts. (c) Rental income and expenses of investment property Rental income and expenses of investment property for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Incomes Expenses Incomes Expenses Property with rental income \ 723 157 802 152 Property without rental income 291 298 \ 723 448 802 450 21. Other Assets Other assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Prepayments \ 4,692 9,752 Prepaid expenses 11,697 13,985 Others 7,729 6,765 \ 24,118 30,502 130 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 22. Depository Liabilities (a) Depository liabilities Depository liabilities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Fair value(*1) Book value Fair value(*1) Demand deposits \ 10,024,010 10,024,010 8,993,520 8,993,263 Time deposits 16,049,359 16,008,903 15,013,516 15,023,665 Negotiable certificates of deposit 711,030 711,207 755,664 756,577 \ 26,784,399 26,744,120 24,762,700 24,773,505 (*1) Fair values are classified as level 3. The amounts of depository liabilities, which mature within 12 months are \17,428,715 million and \16,187,803 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of depository liabilities, which mature after 12 months are \9,355,684 million and \8,574,897 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. (b) Demand deposits Demand deposits as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Deposits in won Passbook deposits \ 995,420 968,368 Savings deposits 5,596,140 4,966,320 Corporate free savings deposits 2,587,139 2,236,663 Others 654,790 654,518 Subtotal 9,833,489 8,825,869 Deposits in foreign currencies Current deposits 371 346 Passbook deposits 190,143 167,295 Temporary deposits 7 10 Subtotal 190,521 167,651 Total \ 10,024,010 8,993,520 (c) Time deposits Time deposits as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Deposits in won Time deposits \ 14,433,745 13,131,165 Installment savings deposits 1,064,344 929,300 Long term housing saving deposits 197,609 227,095 Mutual installment deposits 11,301 137,256 Others 301,382 247,692 Subtotal 16,008,381 14,672,508 Deposits in foreign currencies Time deposits 33,873 337,217 Installment savings deposits 7,105 3,791 Subtotal 40,978 341,008 Total \ 16,049,359 15,013,516 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 131 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 23. Borrowings and Debentures (a) Borrowings and debentures Borrowings and debentures as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Average interest Book value Fair value(*1) Book value Fair value(*1) rate (%) The Bank of Korea 1.07 \ 622,135 622,135 366,394 366,394 Borrowings in won Others 2.67 1,092,712 1,098,198 1,268,485 1,268,485 Subtotal 1,714,847 1,720,333 1,634,879 1,634,879 Borrowings in foreign Borrowings from banks 1.07 439,302 437,433 677,194 676,961 currencies Borrowings Non-bank 3.33 446,064 447,221 353,341 355,342 Bonds sold under RP in foreign currencies 0.94 35,163 35,197 99,800 99,779 repurchase agreements Subtotal 481,227 482,418 453,141 455,121 Call money Borrowings in won 2.54 50,000 50,000 100,000 100,000 Others Bills sold 2.77 42,778 42,792 34,590 34,604 Total 2,728,154 2,732,976 2,899,804 2,901,565 Debentures in won 4.34 2,059,000 2,136,565 2,019,000 2,098,083 Debentures in foreign currencies 2.25 308,246 308,246 Debentures Less discount on debentures (3,930) (3,930) (3,261) (3,261) Others (hybrid bond) 8.60 400,000 417,054 400,000 426,390 Total 2,763,316 2,857,935 2,415,739 2,521,212 Borrowings and Debentures \ 5,491,470 5,590,911 5,315,543 5,422,777 (*1) Fair values are classified as level 3. The amounts of borrowings and debentures, which mature within 12 months are \2,547,109 million and \2,151,739 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of borrowings and debentures, which mature after 12 months are \2,948,291 million and \3,167,065 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 132 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (b) Debentures Debentures as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) Issuance date Maturity date Interest rate (%) 2013 2012 2007-02-06 2013-01-06 5.53 \ 50,000 2007-02-06 2013-01-06 5.53 20,000 2007-02-26 2013-01-26 5.53 16,400 2007-02-26 2013-01-26 5.53 13,600 2008-01-25 2014-01-25 6.76 110,000 110,000 2008-02-28 2014-02-28 6.02 90,000 90,000 2008-11-19 2015-02-19 8.00 28,772 28,800 2008-11-19 2015-02-19 8.00 17,026 17,000 2008-11-21 2015-02-21 8.00 30,867 30,800 2008-11-21 2015-02-21 8.00 16,660 16,700 2008-11-25 2015-02-25 8.00 31,556 31,600 2008-11-25 2015-02-25 8.00 24,119 24,100 2009-01-19 2039-01-19 8.60 270,000 270,000 2009-01-29 2039-01-29 8.60 130,000 130,000 2010-08-31 2016-12-31 5.05 120,000 120,000 2010-08-31 2016-12-31 5.05 80,000 80,000 2011-02-16 2013-08-16 4.24 20,000 2011-02-21 2014-11-21 4.55 50,000 50,000 2011-04-15 2016-04-15 4.46 100,000 100,000 2011-05-02 2014-05-02 4.17 40,000 40,000 2011-05-06 2016-05-06 4.43 20,000 20,000 2011-08-03 2013-08-03 4.17 50,000 2011-09-06 2013-09-06 3.82 60,000 2011-10-20 2018-01-20 4.49 120,000 120,000 2011-10-20 2018-01-20 4.49 10,000 10,000 2011-11-24 2013-05-24 3.61 10,000 2011-11-24 2013-11-24 3.71 20,000 2012-01-27 2014-07-27 3.75 60,000 60,000 2012-03-08 2019-01-08 4.37 150,000 150,000 2012-04-19 2013-04-19 3.53 60,000 2012-04-25 2013-10-25 3.60 70,000 2012-05-14 2013-11-14 3.53 60,000 2012-10-09 2022-10-09 3.35 100,000 100,000 2013-01-25 2015-07-25 2.85 60,000 2013-02-20 2014-08-20 2.78 50,000 2013-05-16 2023-05-16 3.21 100,000 2013-09-06 2023-09-06 4.01 100,000 2011-10-20 2016-10-20 4.25 70,000 70,000 2012-01-17 2017-01-17 3.98 100,000 100,000 2012-06-21 2017-06-21 3.75 100,000 100,000 2012-11-23 2015-11-23 3.07 100,000 100,000 2013-04-19 2018-04-19 2.90 50,000 2013-06-13 2015-06-13 3.52 40,000 2013-08-12 2015-08-12 3.50 50,000 2013-11-21 2015-11-21 3.73 40,000 2013-04-29 2018-04-29 2.25 308,246 Subtotal 2,767,246 2,419,000 Less discount on debentures (3,930) (3,261) Total \ 2,763,316 2,415,739 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 133 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 24. Provisions Changes in provisions for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance Provision for financial guarantee \ 2,666 (2,509) 157 Allowance (*1) Non-financial guarantee contract 6,240 (388) 5,852 Subtotal 8,906 (2,897) 6,009 Unused commitment(*2) 13,495 2 (846) 12,651 Allowance for restoration(*3) 3,539 263 (280) 3,522 Mileage on credit cards 1,707 (256) 1,451 Fraudulent usage of credit card 1 1 2 Dormant deposits repayment(*4) 840 1,867 2,707 Other allowance Welfare for retired employees 1,643 68 1,711 Litigation 462 462 Others 524 7,689 (434) 7,779 Subtotal 4,715 10,087 (690) 14,112 Total \ 30,655 10,352 (4,713) 36,294 (In millions of won) 2012 Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance Provision for financial guarantee \ 2,642 24 2,666 Allowance (*1) Non-financial guarantee contract 4,632 1,608 6,240 Subtotal 7,274 1,632 8,906 Unused commitment(*2) 13,349 146 13,495 Allowance for restoration(*3) 3,420 320 (201) 3,539 Mileage on credit cards 1,698 9 1,707 Fraudulent usage of credit card 1 1 Dormant deposits repayment(*4) 4,389 (3,549) 840 Other allowance Welfare for retired employees 1,866 (223) 1,643 Others 524 524 Subtotal 7,954 533 (3,772) 4,715 Total \ 31,997 2,631 (3,973) 30,655 (*1) Allowance is accounted for as the estimated amount that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a guarantee obligation. (*2) In the case that there is the commitment to providing the credit line, allowance for unused commitment is recognized because the additional withdrawing amount and time for unused commitment is not certain and the Group is exposed to credit loss risk. (*3) Allowance for restoration is calculated as the present value of the restoration expense estimated and calculated at a discount rate as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. (*4) The best estimate of repayments on dormant deposits is recognized as provision. 134 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 25. Defined Benefit Obligations (a) Major assumptions of actuarial valuation Major assumptions of actuarial valuation as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 DGB Financial DGB Capital DGB Financial DGB Capital Daegu Bank Daegu Bank Group Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Group Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Discount rate 3.49% 4.70% 4.28% 3.11% 4.75% 3.91% Salary increases 5.08% 3.83% 5.08% 5.18% 3.89% 5.18% The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 9.44 years as of December 31, 2013 and assumptions regarding future mortality is based on published statistics and mortality tables. (b) The gains and losses related to defined benefit plans The gains and losses related to defined benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Current service cost \ 19,374 18,369 Interest expense 3,527 3,139 Interest income on plan assets (3,063) (2,398) \ 19,838 19,110 (c) Defined benefit obligations Defined benefit obligations as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Present value of retirement benefit obligations \ 100,061 77,156 Fair value of plan assets (83,297) (59,957) Net liabilities occurred from retirement benefit obligation \ 16,764 17,199 (d) Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligations Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Defined benefit obligations at beginning of the year \ 77,156 57,247 Current service cost 19,374 18,369 Interest expense 3,527 3,139 Remeasurement 4,564 (55) Benefit paid (4,754) (1,803) Transfer to related companies 194 259 Defined benefit obligations at end of the year \ 100,061 77,156 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 135 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (e) Changes in fair value of plan assets Changes in fair value of plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year \ 59,957 40,723 Interest income on plan assets 3,063 2,060 Remeasurement (1,014) (425) Contribution of employer 22,699 18,868 Benefit paid (1,420) (1,515) Transfer to related companies 12 246 Fair value of plan assets at end of the year \ 83,297 59,957 The Group is expected to contribute \22,681 million for plan asset next year. (f) Sensitivity analysis Effects to the defined benefit obligation from reasonably possible changes to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Increase (1%) Decrease (1%) Discount rate Increase (decrease) in defined benefit obligation (8,711) 10,112 Percentage change in defined benefit obligation (-)9% 10% Salary increases Increase (decrease) in defined benefit obligation 10,042 (8,817) Percentage change in defined benefit obligation 10% (-)9% Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown. (g) Fair value of plan assets by category The Group􀋅s management policy to plan assets is to invest in stable products regardless of the rate of return. Accordingly, the Group is investing the plan assets in principal and interest guaranteed products such as fixed interest rate products and floating rate products. Fair value of plan assets by category as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Due from banks(*1) \ 83,296 59,956 Contribution to National Pension Plan 1 1 Total \ 83,297 59,957 (*1) Due from banks comprise retirement pensions of Samsung Life Insurance, Kyongnam Bank and Busan Bank. These include principal guaranteed products and the annual rate of return is 3.43% (h) Expected future retirement benefits Expected future retirement benefits as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Amount Less than 1 year \ 6,228 1 ~ 2 years 7,395 2 ~ 3 years 9,132 3 ~ 4 years 8,725 4 ~ 5 years 10,983 More than 5 years 80,514 Total \ 122,977 136 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 26. Other Liabilities Other liabilities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Book value Fair value(*1) Book value Fair value(*1) Suspense receipts \ 409 409 544 544 Accounts payable 1,059,654 1,068,077 857,928 857,928 Accrued expenses 425,830 447,340 441,265 441,265 Domestic exchange settlements credits 534 534 713 713 Prepaid cards 5,477 5,477 4,959 4,959 Debit cards 351 351 367 367 Guarantee deposit for securities subscription 506 506 1,189 1,189 Other financial liabilities Liabilities incurred by agency relationship 63,565 63,565 45,204 45,204 Deposit for credit control 74 74 993 993 Withholding taxes 11,407 11,407 11,398 11,398 Deposits for letter of guarantees and other 110,441 102,843 82,483 82,317 Account for agency business 126,082 126,082 127,987 127,987 Financial guarantee contract 208 208 797 797 Others 307,432 292,269 115,103 115,103 Subtotal 2,111,970 2,119,142 1,690,930 1,690,764 Unearned revenue 24,366 24,366 22,918 22,918 Income tax payable 26,926 26,926 4,343 4,343 Other non-financial liabilities Others 4,968 4,968 8,293 8,293 Subtotal 56,260 56,260 35,554 35,554 Discount present value (7,941) (7,941) (5,463) (5,461) Total \ 2,160,289 2,167,461 1,721,021 1,720,857 (*1) Fair values are classified as level 3. The amounts of other liabilities, which mature within 12 months are \2,082,359 million and \1,723,164 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The amounts of other liabilities, which mature after 12 months are \85,871 million and \3,320 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 137 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27. Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies (a) Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won / thousands of US dollars) 2013 2012 Foreign currency Translation into Foreign currency Translation into (*) won (*) won Cash in foreign currencies $ 56,182 \ 59,289 $ 53,581 \ 57,390 Due from banks in foreign currencies 63,011 66,495 68,817 73,709 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 9,981 10,533 9,823 10,521 Available-for-sale financial assets 112,877 119,120 71,596 76,687 Loans in foreign currencies 505,175 533,111 586,828 628,551 Bills bought in foreign currencies 111,019 117,158 97,736 104,685 Assets Advances for customers in foreign 384 405 255 273 Loans and receivables currencies Credit card accounts in foreign currencies 2,036 2,149 1,790 1,917 Call loans in foreign currencies 304,000 320,811 465,000 498,062 Subtotal 922,614 973,634 1,151,609 1,233,488 Total foreign currency denominated assets $ 1,164,665 \ 1,229,071 $ 1,355,426 \ 1,451,795 Deposits in foreign currencies $ 219,369 \ 231,500 $ 474,894 \ 508,659 Borrowings in foreign currencies 416,282 439,302 632,242 677,194 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Borrowings 33,320 35,163 93,175 99,800 in foreign currencies Subtotal 449,602 474,465 725,417 776,994 Debentures in foreign currencies 292,093 308,246 Liabilities Debentures Less discount on debentures (2,498) (2,636) Subtotal 289,595 305,610 Financial guarantee in foreign currencies 41 44 488 523 Foreign exchanges payable 5,299 5,592 5,451 5,838 Other liabilities Import deposit money in foreign currencies 6,800 7,176 9,629 10,314 Subtotal 12,140 12,812 15,568 16,675 Total foreign currency denominated liabilities $ 970,706 \ 1,024,387 $ 1,215,879 \ 1,302,328 (*) Foreign currencies other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars at the appropriate exchange rates at end of the reporting period. (b) Gain and loss on foreign currency transactions Gain and loss of foreign currency transactions for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Gain on foreign currency transactions \ 93,139 135,819 Loss on foreign currency transactions 83,023 113,938 Net gain on foreign currency transactions \ 10,116 21,881 138 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 28. Capital Stock, Capital Surplus, Capital Adjustment and Non-Controlling Interests (a) Capital stock, capital surplus and capital adjustment as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (i) Authorized shares 500,000,000 shares (ii) Number of shares issued 134,053,154 shares (iii) Par price 5,000 won (iv) Capital stock 670,265,770,000 won (v) Capital surplus (*1) 1,423,484,159,107 won (vi) Capital adjustment (720,209,000) won (*1) Capital surplus consist of additional paid-in capital of \1,421,835 million and other capital surplus of \1,649 million. (b) Hybrid bonds Hybrid bonds issued by subsidiaries are classified as non-controlling interests and hybrid bonds dividends are accounted for as profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Hybid bonds classified as equity as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Description Issuance date Maturity date 2013 Interest rate(%) 2013-05-28 2043-05-28 \ 199,700 4.53 Hybrid bonds (*1) 2013-10-25 2043-10-25 59,911 5.55 2013-11-01 2043-11-01 29,954 5.55 Total \ 289,565 Hybrid bonds dividends \ 6,261 (*1) Hybrid bonds may be redeemed earlier after 10 years from the date of issuance and the Group may extent the maturity with the same conditions at maturity. If the Group decides not to pay dividends on common stock, hybrid bonds dividends are not paid either. 29. Retained Earnings (a) Retained earnings Retained earnings as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Legal reserve (*1) \ 10,604 5,248 Regulatory reserves for loan losses (*2) 967 Unappropriated retained earnings(*3) 608,076 420,383 \ 619,647 425,631 (*1) The Financial Holding Company Act requires a financial holding company to appropriate at least 10% of its net income after income taxes as legal reserve until such reserve equals 100% of its paid-in capital. This reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce the Company’s deficit or be transferred to capital. (*2) The Company calculates and discloses its regulatory reserves for loan losses in the separate financial statements in accordance with Article 27-1 and 27-2 of the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies. (*3) Unappropriated retained earnings includes reserve for trust of \8,107 million and \8,014 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 139 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Statements of appropriation of retained earnings Statements of appropriation of retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won, except for dividend per share) 2013 2012 I. Unappropriated retained earnings \ 48,072 53,561 Unappropriated retained earning carried over from prior years 3,000 317 Cumulative effect on change of accounting policies 288 Profit for the year 44,784 53,244 II. Appropriations of retained earnings 42,108 50,561 Legal reserve 4,478 5,356 Regulatory reserve for loan losses 95 967 Dividends 37,535 44,238 III. Unappropriated retained earnings to be carried over to subsequent year \ 5,964 3,000 These statements of appropriation of retained earnings are based on the separate financial statements of the Company. 30. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Gain on valuation of Remeasurem ent of Loss on translation of available-for-sale financial defined Total foreign operations assets benefit plan Beginning balance \ 28,533 (89) (16,511) 11,933 Net decrease due to valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (3,507) (3,507) Realized loss on disposition of available-for-sale securities (8,181) (8,181) Loss on the fair value hedge accounting (2,934) (2,934) Loss on translation of foreign operations (435) (435) Remeasurements of employee benefits (5,578) (5,578) Effect of income taxes 3,538 127 1,333 4,998 Net balance at end of year \ 17,449 (397) (20,756) (3,704) (In millions of won) 2012 Gain (loss) on valuation of Remeasurem ent of Loss on translation of available-for-sale financial defined Total foreign operations assets benefit plan Beginning balance \ 23,040 (15,868) 7,172 Net decrease due to valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (2,423) (2,423) Realized gain on disposition of available-for-sale securities 3,117 3,117 Gain on the fair value hedge accounting 6,553 6,553 Loss on translation of foreign operations (89) (89) Remeasurements of employee benefits (643) (643) Effect of income taxes (1,754) (1,754) Net balance at end of year \ 28,533 (89) (16,511) 11,933 140 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 31. Interest Income and Interest Expense (a) Interest income Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Interest on due from banks \ 3,866 17,837 Interest on financial assets held for trading 9,284 10,231 Interest on available-for-sale financial assets 64,762 63,493 Interest on held-to-maturity financial assets 196,560 191,827 Interest on loans 1,399,512 1,425,078 Others 8,584 7,686 \ 1,682,568 1,716,152 (b) Interest expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Interest on deposits \ 528,478 570,932 Interest on borrowings 62,033 79,431 Interest on debentures 134,983 125,757 Interest on borrowings from trust account 3,843 1,312 Others 11,561 12,256 \ 740,898 789,688 32. Fee and Commission Income / Commission Expense (a) Fee and commission income Fee and commission income for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Commissions received \ 112,158 113,778 Guarantee fees 4,097 4,115 Commissions received related to trust account 7,778 6,675 \ 124,033 124,568 (b) Commission expense Commission expenses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Commissions paid \ 13,530 10,111 Commissions on credit cards 37,744 40,930 Commissions paid related to trust account 18 21 \ 51,292 51,062 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 141 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 33. Net Gain on Financial Instruments Held for trading Net gain on financial instruments held for trading for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) Description 2013 2012 Dividend income \ 357 90 Gain on securities held for Gain on disposal 9,665 10,126 trading Gain on valuation 1,159 2,840 Subtotal 11,181 13,056 Gain Gain on transaction 334,739 265,095 Gain on derivatives instrument Gain on valuation 57,405 75,311 held for trading Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment 19,731 41,791 Subtotal 411,875 382,197 Gain on financial instruments held for trading \ 423,056 395,253 Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) \ 217 288 Loss on disposal 9,724 9,796 Loss on securities held for trading Loss on redemption 48 173 Loss on valuation 5,092 3,360 Subtotal 15,081 13,617 Loss Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) 276 177 Loss on derivatives instrument Loss on transaction 348,447 316,847 held for trading Loss on valuation 37,024 28,025 Subtotal 385,747 345,049 Loss on financial instruments held for trading \ 400,828 358,666 Net gain on financial instruments held for trading \ 22,228 36,587 Net gain on financial assets held for trading contains interest income, interest expense, dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal which is accrued on financial assets held for trading. 34. Net Gain on Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Net gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) Description 2013 2012 Dividend income \ 7,380 10,474 Gain on financial assets designated at fair value Gain on valuation 167 7,516 through profit or loss Total \ 7,547 17,990 Loss on valuation \ 5,472 Loss on financial assets designated at fair value Loss on disposal 4,356 through profit or loss Total \ 5,472 4,356 Net gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss \ 2,075 13,634 Net gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss contains dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal which is accrued on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. 142 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 35. Net Gain on Available-for-sale Financial Assets Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Dividend income \ 10,639 11,673 Gain on available-for-sale Gain on disposal 21,789 20,486 financial assets Gain on valuation of fair value hedged items 6,576 192 Total \ 39,004 32,351 Loss on disposal \ 676 11,423 Loss on available-for-sale Loss on valuation of fair value hedged items 3,788 6,745 financial assets Total \ 4,464 18,168 Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets \ 34,540 14,183 36. Impairment Loss on Financial Assets Impairment losses on financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets \ 682 9,760 Bad debt expenses 154,082 154,154 \ 154,764 163,914 37. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Employee benefits \ 330,505 319,917 Rent 14,384 14,423 Depreciation 25,047 26,194 Amortization 27,495 24,460 Tax and dues 13,255 12,900 Advertising expense 9,117 9,765 Physical training expense 1,880 1,179 Service expense 30,194 27,937 Others 56,049 55,933 Total \ 507,926 492,708 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 143 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 38. Share-based Payment Transactions (a) Stock options (i) Stock options as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: 9th Shares to be issued 14,030 shares Grant date 2008.3.12 Exercise method Cash settlement Conditions Service conditions/Performance conditions Exercise price per share in won 13,099 won Exercise period 2011.3.13 ~ 2014.3.12 (ii) Changes in cash-settled share appreciation rights for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In won) 2013 2012 Weighted average Weighted average Shares Shares exercise price per share exercise price per share At beginning of period 56,038 shares \ 14,198 178,060 shares \ 15,066 Options exercised 42,008 shares 14,564 122,022 shares 15,465 At end of period 14,030 shares \ 13,099 56,038 shares \ 14,198 (iii) Major factors of measuring fair value by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In won) Option pricing model Stock price Option price Expected variance Expected life Risk free rate Fair value Black-Scholes option pricing 9th \ 16,500 \ 13,099 23.67% 0.19 years 2.55% \ 3,401 model (iv) Expense (revenue) of stock option for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Commission expense (income) \ 50 26 General and administrative expense (reversal) (23) (28) Expense (revenue) of stock option \ 27 (2) (v) Liability for stock option as of December 31, 2013 and􀙻 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Long-term accrued expenses \ 48 101 (b) Equity-linked special incentive (Long-term performance share plan) (i) The group granted equity-linked special incentive for the purpose of motivating long-term performance. Equity-linked special incentive as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: 5th 6th 7th 8th Shares to be granted 5,223 shares 40,607 shares 10,291 shares 11,456 shares Grant date 2011.03.18 2011.12.28 2012.3.22 2012.12.27 Exercise method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Exercise price per share in won 16,323 won Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 144 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (ii) Changes in long-term performance share plan for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In won) 2013 2012 Weighted average Weighted average Shares Shares exercise price per share exercise price per share At beginning of year 72,608 shares \ 2,200 60,103 shares \ 11,283 Shares granted 11,456 shares 62,500 shares Shares exercised 16,487 shares 49,995 shares 10,374 At end of year 67,577 shares 1,262 72,608 shares 2,200 (iii) Major factors of measuring fair value of long-term performance share plan by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In won) Option pricing model Stock price Option price Expected variance Expected life Risk free rate Fair value 5th Black-Scholes option pricing model \ 16,500 \ 16,323 23.16% 0.21 Years 2.55% \ 784 6th Black-Scholes option pricing model 16,500 25.59% 0.99 Years 2.67% 16,129 7th Black-Scholes option pricing model 16,500 25.43% 1.22 Years 2.70% 16,043 8th Black-Scholes option pricing model 16,500 26.43% 1.99 Years 2.79% 15,763 (iv) Expense of equity linked special incentive for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Expense of equity-linked special incentive General and administrative expense \ 697 823 (v) Liability of equity-linked special incentive as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Long-term accrued expenses \ 1,170 664 39. Other Operating Loss, net Other operating loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) Desription 2013 2012 Gain on sale of loans \ 14,844 18,258 Gain on valuation of financial debentures 8,344 Reversal of provision for financial guarantee liabilities 2,509 Other operating income Reversal of provision for dormant deposits repayment 366 Others 13,913 10,456 Total \ 39,976 28,714 Loss on sale of loans \ 6,366 6,194 Fees for credit guarantee fund 48,535 44,886 Deposit insurance premiums 37,059 33,773 Other operating loss Reserve for other provisions 10,155 623 Others 9,983 7,433 Total \ 112,098 92,909 Other operating loss, net \ (72,122) (64,195) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 145 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 40. Operating Revenue and Expense Operating revenue and expense for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Operating revenue \ 2,413,942 2,460,180 Interest Income 1,682,568 1,716,152 Fee and commission income 124,033 124,568 Gain on financial assets held for trading 423,056 395,253 Gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 7,547 17,990 Gain on available-for-sale financial assets 39,004 32,351 Income on hedging derivative instruments 4,619 9,333 Gain on foreign currency transactions 93,139 135,819 Others 39,976 28,714 Operating expense (2,074,937) 2,087,201 Interest expense (740,898) (789,688) Commission expense (51,292) (51,062) Loss on financial assets held for trading (400,828) (358,666) Loss on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (5,472) (4,356) Loss on available-for-sale financial assets (4,464) (18,168) Loss on hedging derivative instruments (14,172) (1,792) Loss on foreign currency transactions (83,023) (113,938) Impairment loss on financial assets (154,764) (163,914) General and administrative expenses (507,926) (492,708) Others (112,098) (92,909) Net operating income \ 339,005 372,979 41. Non-Operating Loss, Net Non-operating loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Gain on disposition of tangible asset \ 59 146 Rental income 1,293 1,398 Non-operating income Others 9,341 7,573 Total \ 10,693 9,117 Collecting expenses for written-off loans \ 980 311 Donations 12,089 14,268 Non-operating loss Others 7,315 4,528 Total \ 20,384 19,107 Non-operating loss, net \ (9,691) (9,990) 146 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 42. Income Tax Expenses (a) Income tax expenses Income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Current income tax \ 88,840 80,646 Changes in temporary differences (10,577) 9,796 Income tax expenses directly charged to equity 4,993 (1,551) Effects of consolidated taxation 1,543 Income tax expenses \ 84,799 88,891 (b) The reconciliation of effective tax rate The reconciliation of effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Profit before income tax expenses \ 329,314 362,989 Income tax calculated at the statutory tax rate 72,029 87,382 Adjustments: Income not assessable for tax purposes (2,802) (909) Expense not deductible for tax purposes 12,031 3,080 Tax credit (71) Additional payment of income taxes 4,650 158 Others (1,038) (820) Income tax expenses \ 84,799 88,891 Effective tax rate 25.75% 24.49% Statutory tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) Tax base Rate Up to \200 million 10% More than \200 million ~ Up to \20,000 million 20% More than \20,000 million 22% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 147 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) Changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Temporary differences to be deducted Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) from (added to) taxable income Money Consolidated Corporate Individuals Public Others Subtotal Adjustments market center amount <Temporary differences> Accrued income \ (163,478) (206,153) (158,706) (210,925) (39,562) (49,889) (38,407) (51,044) Present value discount on securities (68,508) (81,221) (68,508) (81,221) (16,579) (19,656) (16,580) (19,655) Loss on valuation of securities 52,443 (12,587) (15,333) 55,189 12,693 (3,048) (3,712) 13,357 Gain on valuation of derivatives (55,176) (26,203) (55,231) (26,148) (13,353) (6,341) (13,366) (6,328) Other provisions, etc. 27,116 32,970 27,116 32,970 6,562 7,974 6,562 7,974 Unused annual/monthly leave 27,839 27,186 27,839 27,186 6,737 6,578 6,737 6,578 Dormant deposit 4,644 772 626 4,790 1,123 187 152 1,158 Others (1,975) 69,495 19,243 48,277 (811) 15,584 3,090 11,683 Subtotal (177,095) (195,741) (222,954) (149,882) (43,190) (48,611) (55,524) (36,277) <Accumulated other comprehensive income> (*1) Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets (37,643) (23,020) (37,643) (23,020) (9,108) (5,572) (9,109) (5,571) Loss on translation of foreign operations 524 524 127 127 Subtotal (37,643) (22,496) (37,643) (22,496) (9,108) (5,445) (9,109) (5,444) Total \ (214,738) (218,237) (260,597) (172,378) (52,298) (54,056) (64,633) (41,721) (In millions of won) 2012 Temporary differences to be deducted Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) from (added to) taxable income Money Consolidated Corporate Individuals Public Others Subtotal Adjustments market center amount <Temporary differences> Accrued income \ (154,369) (163,164) (154,055) (163,478) (37,357) (39,486) (37,281) (39,562) Present value discount on securities (52,464) (26,900) (10,856) (68,508) (12,696) (6,510) (2,627) (16,579) Loss on valuation of Securities 47,598 (11,191) (16,036) 52,443 11,520 (2,708) (3,881) 12,693 Gain on valuation of derivatives (14,086) (63,250) (22,160) (55,176) (3,409) (15,307) (5,363) (13,353) Allowance for loan losses (29,388) (29,388) (7,112) (7,112) Other provisions, etc. 28,556 27,137 28,577 27,116 6,910 6,567 6,915 6,562 Unused annual/ monthly leave 26,244 27,793 26,198 27,839 6,351 6,726 6,340 6,737 Dormant deposit 5,420 776 4,644 1,311 188 1,123 Others (1,496) 17,908 18,387 (1,975) (666) 4,305 4,450 (811) Subtotal (143,985) (191,667) (158,557) (177,095) (35,148) (46,413) (38,371) (43,190) <Accumulated other comprehensive income> (*1) Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets (30,394) (37,643) (30,394) (37,643) (7,354) (9,109) (7,355) (9,108) Total \ (174,379) (229,310) (188,951) (214,738) (42,502) (55,522) (45,726) (52,298) (*1) Deferred tax assets (liabilities) arising from accumulated other comprehensive income were subtracted or added directly to accumulated other comprehensive income. 148 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (d) Deferred tax assets (liabilities) before offset Deferred tax assets (liabilities) before offset as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Deferred tax assets \ 40,877 44,469 Deferred tax liabilities (82,598) (96,767) Deferred tax liabilities, net \ (41,721) (52,298) The Group sets off a deferred tax asset against a deferred tax liability of the same taxable entity if, and only if, they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities. (e) Income tax payable and prepaid income tax before offset Income tax payable and prepaid income tax before offset as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Income tax payable \ 75,428 74,160 Prepaid income tax (48,502) (69,817) Income tax payable, net \ 26,926 4,343 43. Earnings per Share (a) Basic earnings per share (In won, except share information) 2013 2012 Net income of common stock \ 238,253,799,359 274,098,190,628 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 134,053,154 134,052,970 Basic earnings per share \ 1,777 2,045 b) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (In shares) 2013 2012 Number of shares issued \ 134,053,154 134,053,154 Weighted average number of treasury stock (184) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding \ 134,053,154 134,052,970 (c) Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share because the Group has no issued dilutive securities. 44. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents on statements of cash flows as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Cash and due from banks \ 1,496,884 1,183,977 Restricted cash and deposits (913,669) (659,359) Due from banks with original maturities of more than three months. (2,600) Cash and cash equivalents \ 580,615 524,618 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 149 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 45. Significant Non-cash Transactions Significant non-cash transactions for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Decrease in loans due to writing-off \ 163,242 192,520 Decrease in allowances for loan losses due to disposal 3,913 4,286 Decrease in losses due to restructuring 3,497 5,231 Transferred to land from non-current assets held for sale 15,601 46. Commitments and Contingencies (a) Pending litigation As of December 31, 2013, there are 10 pending lawsuits brought to court by the Group, as a plaintiff, amounting to \1,170 million and 39 pending lawsuits against the Group amounting to \6,425 million. The material lawsuit case is as follows: A lawsuit amounting to \2,036 million has been filed against the Group in which misselling of special money in trust is claimed for by the plaintiff. The Group is in a action together with SAMIL LAW, P.C. as the legal counsel. The Group recognized provision amounting to \462 million in respect to the above lawsuits as of Decembet 31, 2013. (b) Non-financial guarantee contracts Non-financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding \ 223,154 197,013 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in foreign currencies 58,962 57,648 Contingent acceptances and guarantees 278,896 303,277 Loan commitments 6,817,113 6,585,787 Purchasing commitments for securities 106,284 106,284 \ 7,484,409 7,250,009 (c) Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Financial guarantee contract \ 17,926 18,827 Financial guarantee contract in foreign currencies 8,794 22,964 Purchasing commitments for ABCP 15,000 60,000 \ 41,720 101,791 47. Transactions with Related Parties (a) Related parties except for subsidiaries Details of related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: (In millions of won) Name Relation Ownership Capital stock Daegu FC (*1) Other 9.20% 16,310 (*1) Daegu FC is an associate company of Daegu Bank which is wholly owned by the Company. 150 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (b) Transactions with subsidiaries Transactions with subsidiaries which are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements are not included in the consolidated financial statements. (c) Transactions between subsidiaries Transactions between subsidiaries which are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements are not included in the consolidated financial statements. (d) Transactions with associates (i) Significant balances between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Daegu FC Daegu FC Liabilities Deposits \ 90 641 Others 610 609 \ 700 1,250 (ii) Significant transactions between the Group and the related parties except subsidiaries for years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Daegu FC Daegu FC Expenses Interest on deposits \ 52 69 (e) Guarantees and collaterals given or received between the Group and the related parties There are no guarantees and collaterals that the Group provides for funding of related parties or are provided by related parties as of December 31, 2013. (f) Compensation for key management personnel Compensation for key management personnel in total and for each of the following categories for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2013 2012 Short-term employee benefits \ 4,737 4,660 Other long-term benefits 820 1,088 Post-employment benefits 2,621 2,377 Share-based payment (23) 87 Total \ 8,155 8,212 48. Financial Risk Management (a) Purpose of risk management The Group has exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk and operational risk from financial instruments. The Group's risk management system aims at maintaining capital adequacy and managing stability through the comprehensive appraisal and management of significant risks that arise in management activities. By optimizing risk and return balance, the risk management system realizes the stable growth of the Group, while maximizing company value and maintaining an adequate equity capital level as well as achieving business strategies, policies and plans.Compensation for key management personnel in total and for each of the following categories for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (b) Risk management organization The Group's risk management organization consists of a risk management committee, risk management council, risk management working group, risk management department and sub-risk management departments. The risk management committee (the Committee) is the top decisionmaking body chaired by an outside director. It sets up risk management strategy, maintains the adequacy of capital level and manages risk tolerance. Commissioned by the Committee, the risk management council (the Council) deliberates and resolves issues on the agenda, develops and controls risk management strategies and policies and oversees interest rates, capital supply and management risks involving new products and businesses. The risk management working group (the Working Group) monitors the operation and practical review of resolutions and deliberations of and by the Council. The risk management department (the Department) assists top management, the Committee, the Council and individual risk management department of each division fine-tune their risk management plans and measure as well as analyze risks at the division level. The Group sets up sub-risk management departments for credit SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 151 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements risk, liquidity risk, market risk and operational risk and each department is responsible for compliance with risk management strategy and policy. Through the step-by-step loss management (MAT), the Group built a step-by-step reporting system which prevents additional loss and controls risk efficiently for the excessive loss on trade and valuation of the loss limited portfolio. (c) Credit risk (i) Purposes of credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to The Group, if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group's balance accounts and off balance accounts such as loans and receivables, payment guarantee, securities, derivatives from customers and investment securities. The purposes of credit risk management are to maintain the asset quality by controlling loss possibility for the counterparty in falling to meet its contractual obligations and to manage industry type and borrower type concentration risk by controlling a loan portfolio and the credit share limit. (ii) Credit risk management organization Credit risk management is conducted by the Committee, the Council, the Working Group, the Department, credit risk team and sub risk management departments. The Department conducts recognizing, measuring, controlling and checking the adequacy of the Group-wide, departmental or organizational credit risk. It also conducts analyzing and reporting credit risk, developing and improving credit risk management skill, reporting the result of credit risk check-up and providing the information. Credit risk team conducts installing and operating the credit risk management system. Loan review department conducts check-up of loan quality classification through regular credit review. Sub-risk management departments establish and implement credit risk management plans, recognize, measure, analyze and report credit risk, manage loan portfolio considering risk and return, analyze credit risk and conduct follow-up management resulted from new product launching, implement the resolutions from the Committee and Council, supervise countries' credit risk considering credit level of international credit appraisal institutes and submit other credit risk reporting documents. Internal audit inspects the adequacy of recognizing, measuring and evaluating credit risk, credit risk control organization and managing process. (iii) Method of credit risk management ① Loans Credit line The Group manages the concentration risk by considering the economic conditions and environmental factors, and sets credit line for each individual, industry and type of loan. The Group evaluates the concentration ratio of the borrower with large exposure and uses the concentration ratio as a parameter for credit risk management. Credit approval system Enterprises' Credit Scoring System is operated through sophisticated, common or unsophisticated credit rating models according to the amount of enterprises' loans and financial conditions. Households' Credit Scoring System is operated through the ASS (Application Scoring System) or BSS (Behavioral Scoring System). Evaluation The Group systematically evaluates clients' qualifications for a loan by the professional in charge of credit assessment and SRM (Senior Relationship Management) and reevaluates the clients' capability to redeem according to the change of credit conditions. Evaluation is performed on a regular basis. If there is a specific circumstance regarding clients, evaluation may be performed when necessary. In the case of households, the length of extension, renewal or revolving of loans is determined according to the Behavioral Scoring System. ② Debt securities The Group manages the credit risk for debt securities through their credit rating or the similar external credit rating. In the case of using the external credit rating, it is converted to internal rating and its credit line is managed in accordance with the credit line regulations on internal rating. ③ Risk mitigation policy If there is a circumstance or evidence that can increase the credit risk, the Group takes action to mitigate credit risk such as reducing amounts outstanding (in discussion with the clients or counterparties if appropriate). Collateral The Group has various policies and guidance regarding the mitigation of credit risk. Generally, the Group obtains collateral for loans and operates guidance related to acquisition, valuation, and limits related to collateral management. In the case of collateral for real estate, settlement of mortgage is required for acquisition. For movable assets, securities and deposit receivables and establishing the right of pledge is required. Other receivables are required to be obtained through transfer. Obtained collateral are revalued through appraisal after a certain amount of time. Collaterals for loans are, for instance, house, equipment, factories, land, deposit, debt securities and equity securities. Guarantee and derivatives The Group enters into guarantee and derivative contracts to transfer the credit risk of its loans and receivables to third parties. The above contracts require third parties to make payments to reimburse the Group for a loss incurred by debtor’s default. 152 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Master netting agreements In many cases, even though master netting agreements are in place, the lack of an intention to settle on a net basis results in the related assets and liabilities being presented gross on the statement of financial position. In the case of counterparty's default, the Group may reduce some of the losses from the credit risk when all transactions with counterparty are offset. (iv) Maximum exposure of credit risk (In millions of won) 2013 2012 On balance accounts(*1) Due from banks(*2) \ 149,988 109,909 Financial assets held for trading(*3) 277,006 257,515 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss(*3) 10,533 10,521 Available-for-sale financial assets(*3) 1,977,353 1,529,561 Held-to-maturity financial assets 4,385,242 4,428,522 Loans 26,614,868 24,543,156 Receivables 1,519,263 1,344,393 Derivative assets hedge accounting 18,687 24,435 Total \ 34,952,940 32,248,012 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee \ 41,720 101,791 Contracts 6,923,397 6,692,071 Total \ 6,965,117 6,793,862 (*1) After impairment and setting off (*2) Except for due from Bank of Korea (*3) Except for equity securities and beneficiary securities Degree of credit risk exposure is based on the net book value of financial position. In the case of financial guarantee, it is measured as the maximum amount to be paid for the debtor and in the case of loan contract which can not be cancelled or can be cancelled if critical changes occur, it is measured as the entire amount of the contract. (v) Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Deferred income tax assets Balance account (liabilities) Financial HeldFinancial Available -forDerivative Financial assets tomaturity Other assets held sale financial Loans assetshedge guarantee Total designated at financial commitments for trading assets accounting contracts FVTPL assets Manufacturing \ 3,716 222,633 8,621,575 13,288 2,021,206 10,882,418 Construction 6,228 735,491 15,975 311,889 1,069,583 Wholesale and retail 29,756 2,391,500 3,011 525,731 2,949,998 Financial services and 56,570 381,768 150,015 989,381 224,515 1,802,249 insurance Others 158,342 10,533 104,389 20,000 6,296,568 9,446 255,701 6,854,979 Subtotal 224,856 10,533 738,546 170,015 19,034,515 41,720 3,339,042 23,559,227 Households 6,690,994 1,061,279 7,752,273 Government and public 1,238,807 4,215,227 696,560 12,943 6,163,537 institutions Credit card 397,991 2,510,133 2,908,124 Derivatives 62,526 18,870 81,396 Reserve for credit risk (10,376) (183) (10,559) adjustment Allowance (225,215) (225,215) Present value discount (2,456) (2,456) Deferred loan originated 22,479 22,479 cost and fee Total \ 277,006 10,533 1,977,353 4,385,242 26,614,868 18,687 41,720 6,923,397 40,248,806 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 153 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (In millions of won) 2012 Deferred income tax assets Balance account (liabilities) Financial HeldAvailable -forDerivative Financial Financial assets assets tomaturity Other sale financial Loans assetshedge guarantee Total held for trading designated at financial commitments assets accounting contracts FVTPL assets Manufacturing \ 190,940 7,419,877 85,909 1,899,816 9,596,542 Construction 750,461 220,433 970,894 Wholesale and retail 19,608 2,207,737 5,042 477,286 2,709,673 Financial services and 33,727 325,520 280,129 1,196,265 72 312,318 2,148,031 insurance Others 167,892 10,521 80,859 5,708,180 10,768 241,591 6,219,811 Subtotal 201,619 10,521 616,927 280,129 17,282,520 101,791 3,151,444 21,644,951 Households 6,369,296 1,053,243 7,422,539 Government and public 912,634 4,148,393 682,904 10,263 5,754,194 institutions Credit card 423,067 2,477,121 2,900,188 Derivatives 85,964 24,561 110,525 Reserve for credit risk (30,068) (126) (30,194) adjustment Allowance (227,053) (227,053) Present value discount (1,630) (1,630) Deferred loan originated 14,052 14,052 cost and fee Total \ 257,515 10,521 1,529,561 4,428,522 24,543,156 24,435 101,791 6,692,071 37,587,572 (vi) Loans Loans as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others Neither overdue nor impaired loans \ 18,670,874 6,618,467 695,342 392,826 26,377,509 Not impaired but overdue loans 78,472 49,364 904 149 128,889 Impaired loans 285,169 23,163 314 5,016 313,662 Total 19,034,515 6,690,994 696,560 397,991 26,820,060 Allowance for loan losses (185,815) (28,481) (1,850) (9,349) (225,495) Present value discount (2,456) (2,456) Deferred loan origination cost and fee 11,144 10,903 432 22,479 Net book value \ 18,857,388 6,673,416 695,142 388,642 26,614,588 (In millions of won) 2012 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others Neither overdue nor impaired loans \ 16,916,083 6,309,459 682,704 416,814 24,325,060 Not impaired but overdue loans 42,322 36,322 136 78,780 Impaired loans 324,115 23,515 200 6,117 353,947 Total 17,282,520 6,369,296 682,904 423,067 24,757,787 Allowance for loan losses (187,434) (27,151) (2,086) (10,382) (227,053) Present value discount (353) (1,277) (1,630) Deferred loan origination cost and fee 8,492 5,294 266 14,052 Net book value \ 17,103,225 6,346,162 681,084 412,685 24,543,156 154 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Overdue occurs when the counterparty of the contract is not able to pay the principal and interest on the date of contract. Impairment is the case when there is objective evidence of impairment and the loss event had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets and a reliable estimate of the loss amount can be made. The evidences of impairment are such as: past due more than 90 days, bad credit information according to credit information management regulation, restructuring of receivables and debt in overdue condition and revolving of bad exposure. (vii) Loans that are neither overdue nor impaired (*1) Credit qualities of loans as of December 31, 2013 and 2012􀙻 that are neither overdue nor impaired refer to the Group's internal credit appraisal system and are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others 1~6 \ 17,912,067 5,929,695 693,062 287,036 24,821,860 7 279,959 289,046 1,920 39,131 610,056 8(*2) 25,876 127,615 29,591 183,082 9(*2) 14,428 73,021 16,247 103,696 10(*2) 9,734 36,331 10,680 56,745 Not rated(*3) 428,810 162,759 360 10,141 602,070 Total \ 18,670,874 6,618,467 695,342 392,826 26,377,509 (In millions of won) 2012 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others 1~6 \ 16,032,180 5,598,493 650,628 252,513 22,533,814 7 228,796 302,694 1,093 50,453 583,036 8(*2) 34,846 132,144 183 59,098 226,271 9(*2) 14,903 67,636 37,982 120,521 10(*2) 12,058 40,160 13,084 65,302 Not rated(*3) 593,300 168,332 30,800 3,684 796,116 Total \ 16,916,083 6,309,459 682,704 416,814 24,325,060 (*1) The Group assesses and manages credit rating of loans classifying loans into enterprises (external audit, non-external audit, individual business, financial institute, public sector and special finance) and loans to households. Combined evaluation model of financial model and non-financial model is used for loans to enterprises other than loans to financial institute, public sector and special finance. Regular check for adequacy is conducted to guarantee the adequacy of credit rating. (*2) The definition of bankruptcy in Basel II is based on overdue criteria and default criteria and is applied to the definition of impairment of the Group. Impairment unit is borrower criteria thus there might be loans under 8th degree which are neither overdue nor impaired. (*3) Amount of non-rated loan is \602,070 million (\796,116 million as of December 31, 2012) and arises from inter-bank transactions such as call loans, purchase of RP, and inter-bank loans and loans related with sound collateral (deposits and warranty) and sound bills (discounted bills and electronic factoring). Amount of not rated loans from inter-bank transactions and sound loan borrowers is \86,082 million (\99,317 million as of December 31, 2012) and \515,988 million and (\696,799 million as of December 31, 2012), respectively. Relationship between internal credit rating and external credit rating are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification of rating Internal credit rating External credit rating Current 1~6 AAA~BB Precautionary 7 B Substandard 8 CCC Doubtful 9 CC, C Estimated loss 10 D SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 155 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (viii) Loans that are past due but not impaired ① Age analysis of loans that are overdue but not impaired (In millions of won) 2013 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others Less than 30 days \ 67,781 47,094 904 147 115,926 More than 30 days ~ less than 60 days 8,445 1,970 2 10,417 More than 60 days ~ less than 90 days 2,246 300 2,546 Total \ 78,472 49,364 904 149 128,889 (In millions of won) 2012 Enterprises Households Credit card Total Less than 30 days \ 28,020 35,114 111 63,245 More than 30 days ~ less than 60 days 8,152 1,073 25 9,250 More than 60 days ~ less than 90 days 6,150 135 6,285 Total \ 42,322 36,322 136 78,780 ② Estimated fair value of collateral for the loans that are overdue but not impaired is as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Enterprises Households Credit card Total Real estate \ 19,970 26,138 550 46,658 Movable property 5,988 821 6,809 Securities and debentures 3,165 126 3,291 Warranty 14,257 2,305 16,562 Others 2,303 15 2,318 Total \ 45,683 29,405 550 75,638 (In millions of won) 2012 Enterprises Households Total Real estate \ 7,063 20,112 27,175 Movable property 2,548 550 3,098 Securities and debentures 352 84 436 Warranty 11,025 1,838 12,863 Others 917 82 999 Total \ 21,905 22,666 44,571 (ix) Impaired loans Loans which have evidence of impairment are measured either individually or collectively according to material criteria of the loan. Loans either individually or collectively measured for impairment, collateral and estimated fair value of other credit reinforcement are as follows: 156 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP ① Categories of impaired loans (In millions of won) 2013 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others Individual assessment Impaired loans \ 240,970 652 397 242,019 Allowance for doubtful accounts 55,869 27 353 56,249 Collective assessment Impaired loans 44,199 22,511 314 4,619 71,643 Allowance for doubtful accounts 11,095 7,545 54 3,027 21,721 Impaired loans 285,169 23,163 314 5,016 313,662 Total Allowance for doubtful accounts \ 66,964 7,572 54 3,380 77,970 (In millions of won) 2012 Public sectors Enterprises Households Credit card Total and others Individual assessment Impaired loans \ 268,697 800 233 269,730 Allowance for doubtful accounts 79,260 214 79,474 Collective assessment Impaired loans 55,418 22,715 200 5,884 84,217 Allowance for doubtful accounts 14,032 6,874 123 3,466 24,495 Impaired loans 324,115 23,515 200 6,117 353,947 Total Allowance for doubtful accounts \ 93,292 6,874 123 3,680 103,969 ② Estimated fair value of collateral for impaired loans (In millions of won) 2013 Enterprises Households Credit card Total Real estate \ 64,458 8,964 238 73,660 Movable asset 1,162 45 1,207 Securities and debentures 5,254 60 5,314 Warranty 6,893 1,054 7,947 Other 97 97 Total \ 77,864 10,123 238 88,225 (In millions of won) 2012 Enterprises Households Credit card Total Real estate \ 71,830 10,669 2 82,501 Movable asset 193 193 Securities and debentures 21,215 21,215 Warranty 10,239 1,071 6 11,316 Other Total \ 103,477 11,740 8 115,225 (x) Restructuring loans and receivables Restructuring loans and receivables is an activity to maximize the collection of loans and receivables by changing the condition of a financially troubled borrower and includes extension of maturity, postponement of payment and relief of interest rate. Restructured loans and receivables as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are \166,897 million and \105,802 million, respectively. (xi) External credit rating of debt securities The Group manages debt securities using external credit rating and debt securities classified by external credit rating and categories are as follows: The relationships between external credit rating and internal credit rate are described in note 7 ‘Loans that are neither overdue nor impaired. ① Debt securities in won SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 157 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (In millions of won) 2013 Financial assets Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity Total held for trading financial assets financial assets <Long term credit rating> AAA \ 781,505 1,329,766 2,111,271 AA+ ~ AA17,382 220,124 252,590 490,096 A+ ~ A17,199 130,329 147,528 BBB+ ~ BBB29,937 29,937 Not rated 80,523 696,338 2,802,886 3,579,747 Subtotal 115,104 1,858,233 4,385,242 6,358,579 <Short term credit rating> A2 ~ A3 109,752 109,752 Total \ 224,856 1,858,233 4,385,242 6,468,331 (In millions of won) 2012 Financial assets Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity Total held for trading financial assets financial assets <Long term credit rating> AAA \ 626,143 1,451,187 2,077,330 AA+ ~ AA17,379 403,345 452,572 873,296 A+ ~ A34,577 231,162 265,739 BBB+ ~ BBB10,250 10,250 Not rated 575 181,974 2,524,763 2,707,312 Subtotal 52,531 1,452,874 4,428,522 5,933,927 <Short term credit rating> A1 3,754 3,754 A2 ~ A3 145,334 145,334 Subtotal 149,088 149,088 Total \ 201,619 1,452,874 4,428,522 6,083,015 Not rated amount is \3,579,747 million (\2,707,312 million as of December 31, 2012) and domestic credit appraisal companies do not assess the credit rating of government and some public entities. Among not rated amount, government and public entity bond is \1,982,506 million (\1,310,952 million as of December 31, 2012), monetary stabilization bond is \50,006 million (\49,997 million as of December 31, 2012) and other bond is \1,547,235 million (\1,346,363 million as of December 31, 2012). ② Debt securities in foreign currencies (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Financial assets Financial assets Available-forsale Available-forsale designated at fair value Total designated at fair value Total financial assets financial assets through profit & loss through profit & loss AAA \ 10,533 10,533 10,521 10,521 AA+ ~ AA6,441 6,441 A+ ~ A95,503 95,503 76,687 76,687 BBB+ ~ BBB17,176 17,176 Total \ 10,533 119,120 129,653 10,521 76,687 87,208 (xii) Offsets of financial assets and financial liabilities The Group has financial instruments which subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The similar agreements include derivative clearing agreements, repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements, etc. Some of derivative instruments are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement. In accordance with this agreement, all the derivatives transactions are terminated in the credit event such as bankruptcy of any of the counterparties and the net amounts offset in each transaction will be paid from one party to another at the time of termination. The Group’s repurchase agreement transactions, and securities lending transactions, etc., are also subject to an agreement similiar to ISDA (International Derivatives Swaps and Dealers Association) offsetting agreements. 158 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the statement of financial position because ISDA offsetting agreements and similar agreements are exercisable only in the credit event and the parties to transactions have no intention to either settle on a net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. ① Offsetting financial assets Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Gross offset Net amounts of financial Related amounts not set off Gross amounts in the statement of financial position amounts of assets presented in the of recognized Net amount recognized statement of financial Financial Collateral received financial assets financial liabilities position instruments Securities Bonds purchased under resale agreements \ 100,000 100,000 95,359 4,641 Accrued balance spot exchange 583,485 583,485 583,447 38 Trading derivatives assets 53,225 53,225 4,718 1,031 47,476 Hedging derivatives assets 43 43 43 Total \ 736,753 736,753 588,165 96,390 52,198 (In millions of won) 2012 Gross offset Net amounts of financial Related amounts not set off Gross amounts in the statement of financial position amounts of assets presented in the of recognized Net amount recognized statement of financial Financial Collateral received financial assets financial liabilities position instruments Securities Bonds purchased under resale agreements \ 206,235 206,235 186,851 19,384 Accrued balance spot exchange 510,568 510,568 510,210 358 Trading derivatives assets 74,985 74,985 4,664 70,321 Hedging derivatives assets 2,790 2,790 933 1,857 Total \ 794,578 794,578 515,807 186,851 91,920 ② Offsetting financial liabilities Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Gross offset Net amounts of financial Related amounts not set off Gross amounts in the statement of financial position amounts of assets presented in the of recognized Net amount recognized statement of financial Financial Collateral financial assets financial liabilities position instruments received Bonds sold under repurchase agreements \ 481,227 481,227 481,227 Accrued balance spot exchange 336,467 336,467 336,320 147 Trading derivatives liabilities 29,334 29,334 4,217 25,117 Hedging derivatives liabilities 10,462 10,462 718 9,744 Total \ 857,490 857,490 822,482 35,008 (In millions of won) 2012 Gross offset Net amounts of financial Related amounts not set off Gross amounts in the statement of financial position amounts of assets presented in the of recognized Net amount recognized statement of financial Financial Collateral financial assets financial liabilities position instruments received Bonds sold under repurchase agreements \ 453,141 453,141 453,141 Accrued balance spot exchange 197,315 197,315 197,268 47 Trading derivatives liabilities 17,921 17,921 1,016 16,905 Hedging derivatives liabilities 164 164 164 Total \ 668,541 668,541 651,425 17,116 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 159 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Liquidity risk (i) Purposes of liquidity risk management The purposes of liquidity risk management is to manage the risk which occurs when there are not enough financial resources and liquidity for principal and interest, not due to the problem of payment ability but due to the situation such as maturity inconsistency of assets and liabilities. Additional reasons for liquidity risk include abnormal disposal of assets or fund raising through liabilities. (ii) Method of liquidity risk management Liquidity risk management covers all the monetary transactions of assets and liabilities. The methods of measuring, evaluating and managing liquidity risk are as follows: Establish liquidity ratio of supervising organization and periodic liquidity gap limit for the maturity differences of assets and liabilities and report the results to the Committee and the Council Promote the precaution of liquidity risk considering fund raising time Possess sufficient current assets as provision for liquidity shortage Establish and implement a liquidity risk dealing (iii) Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Contractual maturity analysis for financial liabilities is as follows: Financial liabilities held for trading and demand deposits are recognized as fair value and included in the 'On demand' section. ① Non-derivative financial liabilities (In millions of won) 2013 On Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than Total demand 1 month months months months months months 60 months <On balance accounts> Depository liabilities \ 10,029,932 2,344,711 3,854,406 3,713,098 5,744,747 684,493 165,664 556,513 27,093,564 Demand deposits 10,090,456 10,090,456 Time deposits 5,922 2,276,050 3,637,746 3,496,671 5,531,553 680,287 165,664 556,513 16,350,406 Negotiable certificates of 68,661 216,660 216,427 213,194 4,206 719,148 deposits Borrowings 50,000 754,555 398,987 263,537 300,713 570,514 312,543 167,140 2,817,989 Borrowings in won 629,667 60,421 65,366 130,273 328,988 127,543 167,140 1,794,398 Borrowings in foreign 54,163 108,594 108,010 97,694 74,891 443,352 currency Bonds sold under 60,522 212,813 74,518 72,731 66,635 487,219 repurchase agreements Call money 50,000 50,000 Other borrowings 10,203 17,159 15,643 15 43,020 Debentures 115,875 98,190 77,091 404,181 833,450 824,100 1,595,705 3,948,592 Debentures in won 113,778 98,190 65,047 383,372 750,309 428,025 498,563 2,337,284 Debentures in foreign 3,562 3,562 14,247 327,275 348,646 currency Hybrid capital securities 2,097 8,482 17,247 68,894 68,800 1,097,142 1,262,662 Other financial liabilities 1,574,605 3,642 7,992 14,709 62,376 16,664 3 1,679,991 Total \ 10,079,932 4,789,746 4,355,225 4,061,718 6,464,350 2,050,833 1,133,971 2,319,361 35,540,136 <Off balance accounts> Financial guarantee contract \ 41,720 41,720 Commitments 6,923,397 6,923,397 Total \ 6,965,117 6,965,117 160 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (In millions of won) 2012 On Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than Total demand 1 month months months months months months 60 months <On balance accounts> Depository liabilities \ 8,996,911 2,684,060 3,692,296 3,469,194 5,438,360 651,688 150,083 364,794 25,447,386 Demand deposits 8,993,120 8,993,120 Time deposits 3,791 2,587,244 3,439,241 3,271,385 5,235,522 626,098 150,083 364,794 15,678,158 Negotiable certificates of 96,816 253,055 197,809 202,838 25,590 776,108 deposits Borrowings 100,000 534,934 268,474 349,331 468,727 781,875 320,055 193,530 3,016,926 Borrowings in won 372,802 71,610 79,080 153,361 530,686 320,055 193,530 1,721,124 Borrowings in foreign 75,415 120,540 118,081 207,057 165,896 686,989 currency Bonds sold under 74,925 58,268 147,063 108,257 85,293 473,806 repurchase agreements Call money 100,000 100,000 Other borrowings 11,792 18,056 5,107 52 35,007 Debentures 105,569 6,845 105,235 739,078 649,815 446,061 1,540,398 3,593,001 Debentures in won 103,472 6,845 96,753 721,831 581,015 377,167 408,856 2,295,939 Hybrid capital securities 2,097 8,482 17,247 68,800 68,894 1,131,542 1,297,062 Other financial liabilities 1,180,022 8,393 2,257 658 3,156 20 15 1,194,521 Total \ 9,096,911 4,504,585 3,976,008 3,926,017 6,646,823 2,086,534 916,219 2,098,737 33,251,834 <Off balance accounts> Financial guarantee \ 101,791 101,791 contract Commitments 6,692,071 6,692,071 Total \ 6,793,862 6,793,862 ② Derivative financial liabilities (In millions of won) 2013 Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 Total 1 month months months months months months <Trading derivatives> Currency related \ 9,320 13,257 8,873 4,187 35,637 Stock related 269 589 500 939 2,297 Subtotal 9,589 13,846 9,373 5,126 37,934 <Hedging derivatives> Interest rate related 7,945 7,945 Stock related 1,049 1,468 2,517 Subtotal 1,049 1,468 7,945 10,462 Total \ 9,589 13,846 10,422 6,594 7,945 48,396 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 161 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (In millions of won) 2012 Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 Total 1 month months months months months months <Trading derivatives> Currency related \ 10,378 11,716 1,206 4,316 28 27,644 Stock related 115 273 625 1,924 245 3,182 Subtotal 10,493 11,989 1,831 6,240 273 30,826 <Hedging derivatives> Interest rate related 164 164 Stock related 460 473 933 Subtotal 460 473 164 1,097 Total \ 10,493 11,989 2,291 6,713 273 164 31,923 Available assets to fulfill the payment obligations of liabilities and to carry out the unpaid loan contracts are cash, due from The Bank of Korea, loans, equity securities and debt securities. The Group is able to deal with unexpected cash flows through the disposal of securities and by additional fund raising resources such as the asset securitization market. (e) Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows is affected by the volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. (i) Purposes of market risk management Purposes of market risk management are to secure the profitability and stability by controlling the losses generated from managed assets and liabilities due to volatility of market risk factors such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Those subject to market risk management are securities held for trading, foreign currency net open positions, derivatives, off balance transactions and other market risk inherent assets and liabilities. (ii) Market risk management organization The Group divides exposures to market risk into trading position and non-trading position. To promote the classification and management of trading position, the Group operates its accounting and computer system according to the classification. The Group also classifies and operates a trading desk and non-trading desk separately. Market risk management of the Group is conducted by the Committee, the Council, the Working Group, the Department and sub-risk management departments. The Department is distinctly separated from operating departments and controls entire market risks. The main tasks of the Department are to establish and implement a market risk management policy, to review the adequacy of market risk management criteria, to establish and implement the market risk tolerance management system, to distribute market risk tolerance, to monitor the observance of market risk tolerance, to assess, analyze and report total market risk and to establish and implement the market risk management system. Front office is distinctly separated from the assisting department and the Department. The main tasks of the front office are to establish and implement investing policy, process and strategy, to set out and operate the limit of the Group's market risk tolerance, to record transaction history and to submit related documents to the assisting department. The assisting department is supposed to secure the restrict separation of work and mutual control function between middle office and back office. The main tasks of assisting departments are to review the compliance of limits, transactions, profit and loss evaluation, to conduct follow up works such as exchanging transaction confirmation documents based on operating department's transaction documents, accounting, money and to submit market risk reports. (iii) Trading position Trading position is the interest rate, equity positions, derivatives, foreign exchange positions, among others that pursue profit from short-term changes in market factor price rather than pursue profit from interest income. Specifically, it includes short-term trading and the financial instruments for arbitrage trading of stock, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodity, among others, which are acquired by a professional dealer or operational departments within a predetermined limit, things acquired for hedging risk, derivative that does not apply hedge accounting, etc. ① Risk management method The tolerance limit (including the limit of VaR, investment limit, loss limit) to manage the market risk on trading positions is required to be set principally at least once a year, and approved by the Committee. Compliance of the tolerance limit is monitored daily and the changes of the risk are simultaneously reported to the management, the Council and the Committee on a regular basis (daily, monthly, and annually). Plans for dealing with the market risk are established and operated for each level of the risk. 162 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP ② Risk assessment method Value at Risk (VaR) The main method to measure and manage exposure to market risk for trading position is VaR. The VaR measures the potential loss in value of a risky asset or portfolio over a defined period for a given confidence interval. The VaR is calculated by applying 99% confidence level at a 10-day. Analysis of crisis situations The Group conducts crisis situation analysis to determine changes in market price of the portfolio under extreme market volatility that can not be considered in the VaR model. Crisis situation analysis is conducted every business day for all the assets, or if necessary, can be performed by constructing a portfolio. Implementations are reported to the Council one or more times a month. For analysis of crisis situation, changes in the Group’s assets and liabilities are measured under integrated scenario which assumes decline in stock prices by 30.8%, rise in interest rates by 20% and change in exchange rate by 25%. Verification Adequacy of the VaR model is continuously monitored through follow-up verification. Verification is conducted for the latest 250 business days. If a real loss exceeds a virtual loss (1-day VaR) of the previous day significantly, the Group verifies assumptions and modifies the model, if necessary. Verification is conducted every business day and implementations are reported to the Council once or more times a month. VaR by risk types (trading position) VaR by risk types as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk \ 44 230 26 857 Foreign exchange risk 975 171 25 1,117 Stock risk 837 2,334 341 3,296 Diversification effect (341) (391) (19) (1,707) Total risk \ 1,515 2,344 373 3,563 (In millions of won) 2012 Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk \ 83 239 47 767 Foreign exchange risk 641 339 62 1,420 Stock risk 2,092 3,468 688 5,607 Diversification effect (285) (485) (117) (1,443) Total risk \ 2,531 3,561 680 6,351 The sum of VaR for each risk type does not match the total VaR due to correlation between risk factors and the diversification effect. The correlation between risk factors and the volatility are calculated using the simple moving average method. (iv) Non-trading position The Group manages interest rate risk for non-trading position. Interest rate risk of non-trading position is the risk that the net asset value or net interest income might decrease due to the inconsistency of interest rate maturity and the unfavorable change of market interest rate. The Group measures interest rate risk for interest assets such as loans, dues from banks and bonds, for interest rate liabilities such as deposits and borrowings and for hedge derivatives. Among non-trading positions, marketable available-for-sale financial assets (stocks) are managed through VaR.. ① Method of interest rate risk management The tolerance limit to manage the interest rate risk on trading positions is required to be set in principle at least once a year, and approved by the Committee. To verify complying with the tolerance limit, the interest risk is measured and managed at least once a month, and reported to the management, the Council and the Committee. ② Assessment methods for interest rate risk Value at Risk (VaR) Interest rate VaR measures potential losses in value of a net asset over a defined period for a given confidence interval. The Group calculates interest rate VaR by the gap of interest rate and the modified duration. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 163 FINANCIAL SECTION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Earning at Risk (EaR) EaR is the quantity by which net income is projected to decline in the event of an adverse change in prevailing interest rates. Others The Group evaluates interest rates risk by using the rate of interest gap, and conducts the interest risk analysis of crisis situations under abnormal market conditions at least twice a year. Also, the department verifies the accuracy, completeness and suitability one or more times a year regularly and observes measurement-related data constantly and independently. Interest rate VaR (non-trading position) Interest rate VaR as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) End Average Minimum Maximum 2013(*1) \ 30,645 20,518 3,705 41,854 2012(*1) 46,415 64,741 32,125 95,115 (*1) Simple sum of Daegubank’s interest rate VaR and DGB Capital Co.,Ltd’s interest rate VaR. (v) Foreign exchange bias Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows are affected by the volatility of foreign exchange rate. The Group does not divide foreign exchange position into trading position and non-trading position but manages it on the whole. Exposures to foreign exchange risk as of December 31, 2013 and 2012􀙻 are as follows: (In millions of won) USD JPY EUR Others 2013 Foreign currency financial assets \ 1,482,943 174,610 26,446 26,748 Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,376,575 151,741 14,114 12,788 2012 Foreign currency financial assets 1,495,997 408,616 22,527 23,295 Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,453,388 399,761 16,544 6,611 (f) Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide variety of causes associated with the Group's processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure and from external factors. The Group designates a related department to indentify operational risk and other departments are responsible for recognition of loss data and computer system management. The Department is responsible for establishing and implementing operational risk strategy, policy and process. It is also responsible for establishment, operation and improvement of operational risk management system and management of the Group's loss data. The Group applies operational standardized approach and calculates required capital with the average amount for three years by mapping its business lines into eight lines and aggregating the amounts obtained by multiplying gross income for each business line by the corresponding rate(12~18%). Tolerable limit for operational risk is set at least once a year and gets an approval from the Committee. Operational risk is measured and is reported to the management, the Council and the Committee on a regular basis. (g) Capital management The Group is required to maintain more than 8% of minimum capital compared to risk-weighted assets (“BIS ratio”) on a consolidated basis according to the Banking Act. BIS ratio is defined by the ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standard’ of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision within the Bank of International Settlement. BIS ratio is a international standard regarding the capital adequacy ratio regulation to cope with risk increase of financial companies and is calculated as ‘(common stock capital + other core capital + supplementary capital – deductions) ÷ risk weighted assets’. Common stock capital is the permanent capital comprised of capital, capital surplus, retained earnings, etc., other core capital is comprised of hybrid securities which meet the requirements of Basel III, and supplementary capital is comprised of allowances for credit losses accumulated for assets classified as ‘normal’ or ‘precautionary’ and hybrid securities which meet the requirements of Basel III. Deductions are assets (e.g. deferred tax assets) which don’t have the nature of capital for the purpose of capital adequacy regulation and are deducted from equity capital. Regulated capital and BIS ratio (neither audited nor reviewd by the external auditor) of the Group as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows. The Group has complied with all the external capital maintenance restriction conditions for the past two years. BIS Ratio is calculated on a consolidated basis. 164 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Total capital (A) \ 3,981,064 3,519,734 Basic capital (B) 3,041,727 2,634,392 Common stock stock (C) 2,421,384 Supplementary capital (D) 939,337 885,342 Risk weighted asset (E) \ 26,440,572 22,606,493 Ratio of total capital (A/E) 15.06% 15.57% Ratio of basic capital (B/E) 11.50% 11.65% Ratio of common stock capital (C/E) 9.16% The purpose of a capital policy is to maintain the adequacy of capital and stability of management. Evaluation and management of capital adequacy is conducted for all of the potentially important risks and based on consolidation level. (However, if subsidiary's ratio of total asset is under 5%, that subsidiary can be exempted). The Group sets the policy of risk capital management and risk tolerable limit to evaluate and manage the capital adequacy. The Group reviews the adequacy regularly and reports the results to the Committee and management. Capital management of the Group meets both external and internal criteria and the results of capital adequacy evaluation is used through the management. The Group constantly pursues improvement in risk recognition and evaluation. 49. Regulatory Reserves for Loan Losses Regulatory reserves for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2013 2012 Regulatory reserves for loan losses \ 137,927 125,484 Estimated transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses 20,642 12,443 Regulatory reserves for loan losses at end of year \ 158,569 137,927 For owner of the Group 158,569 137,927 For non-controlling interests Adjusted profit after regulatory reserves for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 are as follows: (In millions of won, except earnings per share) 2013 2012 Required transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses \ 20,642 12,443 Adjusted profit after regulatory reserves for loan losses 217,612 261,655 Earnings per share after regulatory reserves for loan losses in won 1,623 1,952 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 / 2014 165 Appendix DGB Financial Group Awards 167 Third-party Assurance Statement 168 GRI G4 INDEX 170 ISO 26000 / UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 174 Survey of Reader's Opinions 175 166 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP APPENDIX DGB Financial Group Awards 2013-2014 CSR Recognition and Awards Date Awards Organization Earned the highest ‘AAA’ rating in the 2012 Corporate Sustainability Management Jan. 7, 2013 The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) Performance Evaluation Awarded the Micro-financing prize in the banking sector at the 2nd Korea Best Financial Service Commission, Financial Supervisory Service, Korea Federation of Feb. 18, 2013 Banker Awards Banks and Seoul Economic Daily Earned the highest AAA rating in the 2012 Corporate Sustainability Assessment for Feb. 18, 2013 Eco Frontier the second year in a row Earned the highest AAA rating in the 2013 Korean Listed Companies Sustainability June 10, 2013 SUSTINVEST Performance Evaluation for the first half of the year June 26, 2013 Listed on the FTSE4Good Index for 3rd consecutive year Financial Times Stock & Exchange Awarded the Presidential Commendation at the 2013 Korea Green Management July 2, 2013 Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Maeil Business Daily Awards JoongAng Daily, JTBC, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Ministry of Sep. 11, 2013 Singled out as a leading bank at the 2013 CSR Management for Co-prosperity Environment Oct. 14, 2013 Earned the highest AA rating in the 2013 ESG Annual Evaluation SUSTINVEST Received the KSI Index Prize in the regional banking sector at the 2013 Korea Oct. 16, 2013 Korea Standards Association Sustainability Convention Listed on the DJSI Sustainability Index Korea for fifth straight year and Asia-Pacific for Oct. 30, 2013 Dow Jones & RobecoSam and Korea Productivity Center 4th consecutive year Oct. 31, 2013 Named one of Korea’s Top 30 by the 2013 CSR Best East Asia 30 Hankyoreh Daily/Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute Nov. 28, 2013 Prime Minister’s commendation at the 7th Anti-Money Laundery Day Awards Financial Service Commission (Financial Intelligence Unit) Dec. 19, 2013 Awarded the Ministerial Prize at the 2013 Green Ranking Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Ministry of Environment/SUSTINVEST Became the only Korean financial institution to earn the highest ‘S’ rating at the Feb. 14, 2014 Eco Frontier 2013 2H Sustainability Evaluation Earned the highest AAA grate at the 2013 Corporate Sustainability Management Mar. 4, 2014 Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) Performance Evaluation for the second year in a row Dong-A Daily/ Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Ministry of Security and Public Awarded the Grand Prize in the Great Workplace category at the 2014 Korea Great June 3, 2014 Administration, Ministry of Health & Welfare, Ministry of Employment & Labor, Workplace Awards Ministry of Gender Equality & Family Became the only Korean financial institution to earn the ‘Excellent’ grade in the July 3, 2014 Korea Corporate governance Service, Korea Exchange/Financial Service Commission 2014 ESG Evaluation External Assurance & Certifications Date Awards Organization Apr. 30, 2007 Obtained third-party assurance on Daegu Bank’s 2006 Sustainability Report GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Became the first Korean financial institution to have its GHG inventory verified June 16, 2010 Korea Standards Association (KSA) by a third party May 30, 2011 Acquired the KS I 14001 Environmental Management System Certification Approved by Korea Accreditation Board (KAB)/Certified by KSA Became the first Korean financial institution to obtain the Green Management Administered by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy Nov. 20, 2011 System Certificate (KS I 7001/7002) Approved by KAB/Certified by KSA Obtained the utility model patents on DGB’s donation methods and means by June 3, 2013 Korea Intellectual Property Office (KIPO) the name of investors SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 167 APPENDIX Third-party Assurance Statement Dear DGB Financial Group Management and Stakeholders The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by DGB Financial •Verification of management system and process to improve achievement in Group to perform a third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘2013/14 DGB Financial sustainability management and to prepare the Report Group Sustainability Report’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent opinions as •Review of the consistency between the financial performance data and the follows as a result of feasibility of the data contained in this Report. DGB Financial company’s audit report/publicly announced data Group has sole responsibility for content and performance contained in this Report. •Examination of internal documents and basic materials ■ Independence ■ Assurance Results and Opinions [On an assurance principle/process level] As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of commercial KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurance interest in businesses of DGB Financial Group apart from undertaking a third-party provider. Modifications were made of the Report content if deemed necessary. We assurance on the Report. We have no other contract with DGB Financial Group were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in this Report that may undermine credibility and integrity as an independent assurance agency. as a result of our Assurance Engagement. As such, we present our opinions of the 2013/14 DGB Financial Group Sustainability Report as follows. ■ Assurance Standards and Level This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards •Inclusivity to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the three principles of inclusivity, Has DGB Financial Group engaged its stakeholders in strategically materiality, and responsiveness in combination with information credibility of the responding to sustainability? Report. We also verified whether the Report content was created in accordance We believe that DGB Financial Group is making an all-out effort for major with the GRI G4 Guidelines and ISO 26000. stakeholders’ participation in promoting sustainability management, and we assured procurement and operation of diverse stakeholder communication ■ Assurance Type and Scope channel of DGB Financial Group. We were not aware of any omission of significant We performed a Type 2 Assurance Engagement in accordance with AA1000AS. stakeholder group. However, we recommend that DGB Financial Group reflect This implies that we verified the accuracy and quality of the statements made stakeholders’ needs into the company’s sustainability management strategy by DGB Financial Group and the sustainability performance data included in and performance through regular operation of sustainability management this Report. This Assurance Engagement covered data from the calendar year committee. We also recommend disclosing specific examples on how opinions 2013. Information from the first half of 2014 was also included depending on were gathered and decisions were made on management level. content. The scope of this Assurance Engagement primarily includes the systems and initiatives undertaken by DGB Financial Group including its sustainability •Materiality management policies, goals, projects, standards and performance during the Has DGB Financial Group included material information in the Report to reporting period defined in the Report. While the company’s environmental and help stakeholders make informed decisions? social data as well as financial data was verified, the scope of review concerning We are not aware of any significant omissions or exclusions of data that is stakeholder engagement was limited to the materiality test process. material to stakeholders. We verified that DGB Financial Group conducted materiality test with issues identified from analyses of internal and external ■ Assurance Methodology environments and reported according to the result. We believe DGB Financial We used the following methods to gather information, documents and evidence Group would further improve by increasing compatibility between material with respect to the assurance scope. issues and related sustainability management strategy, and reflect it to manage and to improve achievement in sustainability management. •Analyses of articles related to DGB Financial Group’s sustainability management published by domestic media outlets over the last three years •Responsiveness •Analyses of issues reported in the sustainability reports published by domestic Has DGB Financial Group appropriately responded to stakeholder and overseas industry peers requirements and interest in this Report? •Visit DGB Financial Group headquarter/Interview with employees in charge of We verified that DGB Financial Group responded stakeholders’ needs and sustainability management and managers of respective issues interests through reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. We are not 168 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP aware of any evidence that DGB Financial Group’s response to significant social change, stakeholders take a higher interest in sustainable finance that they issues of stakeholders was reported inappropriately. We suggest DGB Financial can trust long term, remain stable, and contribute to economic development of Group diversifies KPIs for managing material issues of respective stakeholder community. We suggest that DGB Financial Group discloses specific information and performances, intensifies system for carrying out sustainability management on performances and efforts for solidifying sustainability governance structure strategies and tasks systematically. by considering how sustainability in financial service sector is propelled from ESG perspective. ■ Verification of Material GRI G4 Indicators We confirmed that this Report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4 •Environmental Comprehensive Option. Based on data DGB Financial Group provided, we also DGB Financial Group was the first in the nation’s financial sector to receive confirmed a validity of the contents related to General Standard Disclosure and Green Management System (GMS) and it has been promoting systematic green Specific Standard Disclosure indicators. management based on plan-do-check-act (PDCA). It is important to identify risks related to climate change and environment at micro level, and to analyze •General Standard Disclosures its impact on organization’s business activity to come up with comprehensive We verified that this Report is in compliance with requirements for General countermeasures. We recommend extending the areas of sustainability Standard Disclosures of Comprehensive Option. We examined indicators below. management through continuous development of green financial products and G4-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, green management activities considering organization’s value chain. 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 •Social DGB Financial Group is performing various social contribution activities to •Specific Standard Disclosures solve the issues our society faces such as low birthrate and aging population, We checked DMAs with respect to Material Aspects identified from a decision increasing number of multicultural families, and youth unemployment. We making process on which content to be disclosed. We examined indicators would like to suggest that the company continue to promote social contribution below. which could reflect characteristics of financial sector: job creation programs for G4-EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC7, EC8, EN3, EN8, EN15, EN16, EN27, EN28, LA1, retirees, training programs to cultivate management specialists and financial LA2, LA3, LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, HR1, HR2, HR3, SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, specialists, which enable technological development and stimulation of regional PR3, PR4, PR5, PR8, PR9, FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5, FS6, FS7, FS8, FS13, FS14, economy. Also, we recommend the company to continue to measure and FS15, FS16 improve influences and ripple effect of those programs. ■ Opinions and Recommendations by Sector [On a performance/issue level] We present the following recommendations to help DGB Financial Group establish July 2014 a company-wide sustainability management strategy and respond to continuous Kim, Moo-Hong issues of sustainability. Acting KSA Chairman & CEO •Economic Financial service industry is expected to undergo rapid changes due to following variables: changes in market condition such as opening, liberalization, and internalization of the financial market; changes in population structure such as low birthrate and aging population; intensifying competition; changes in government regulation and so on. During the rapid economic, environmental, Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, is serving as a knowledge service provider who distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI(Korea Sustainability Index) operator, UN CDM DOE(development operational entity), and assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 169 APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the G4-1 5 168-169 relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 28-29 168-169 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 15-21 168-169 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 15-21 168-169 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 15-21 168-169 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant G4-6 15-21 168-169 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 15-21 168-169 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 15-21 168-169 Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees Total number of operations G4-9 15-21 168-169 Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided A. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. B. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 15-21 168-169 E. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 52 168-169 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 53 168-169 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector 22-23 168-169 organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 14 168-169 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes G4-15 13 168-169 or which it endorses. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the G4-16 13 168-169 organization: A. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by 15-21 168-169 the report. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries A. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 27 168-169 B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 28-29 168-169 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches G4-20 and report either: 30-31 168-169 a. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or b. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization G4-21 If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. 30-31 168-169 In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. About This Report 168-169 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. About This Report 168-169 170 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP General Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 26 168-169 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 26 168-169 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, G4-26 27 168-169 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to G4-27 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and 27 168-169 concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About This Report 168-169 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About This Report 168-169 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About This Report 168-169 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About This Report 168-169 A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 About This Report 168-169 C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. A. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 About This Report 168-169 C. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees G4-34 13 168-169 responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior G4-35 13 168-169 executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental G4-36 13 168-169 and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-37 13 168-169 If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive Independence Tenure on the governance body G4-38 Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments 10-11 168-169 Gender Membership of under-represented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the G4-39 10 168-169 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered G4-40 10-11 168-169 Whether and how independence is considered Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Cross-board membership G4-41 10-11 168-169 Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s G4-42 13 168-169 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and G4-43 13 168-169 social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation G4-44 is a self-assessment. 13 168-169 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 13 168-169 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 171 APPENDIX GRI G4 INDEX General Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, G4-46 13 168-169 environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 13 168-169 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all G4-48 13 168-169 material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 10-12 168-169 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) G4-50 10-12 168-169 used to address and resolve them. A. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: Fixed pay and variable pay: a. Performance-based pay b. Equity-based pay c. Bonuses d. Deferred or vested shares G4-51 Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments 12 168-169 Termination payments Clawbacks Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees B. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration G4-52 and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the 12 168-169 organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on G4-53 12 168-169 remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations G4-54 12 168-169 to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of G4-55 significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid 12 168-169 individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 37 168-169 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational G4-57 37 168-169 integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 37 86-87 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Specific Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance Category: Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 17 168-169 Economic G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 71-72 168-169 Performance G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 51 168-169 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government – Not Applicable 168-169 Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 59-67 168-169 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 59-67 168-169 Category: Environmental Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 69-70 168-169 Services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category – Not Applicable 168-169 Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 48, 64 168-169 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Employment G4-LA2 49-51 168-169 significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 49 168-169 172 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Specific Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 47 168-169 Plans to adopt Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees such program Training and G4-LA10 – 168-169 and assist them in managing career endings by the end of Education 2014 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by G4-LA11 47 168-169 employee category Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 48 168-169 Opportunity age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Sub-Category: Human Rights Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights G4-HR1 37 168-169 clauses or that underwent human rights screening Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that G4-HR2 37 168-169 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained No such Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken – 168-169 incidents Sub-Category: Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and G4-SO1 62 168-169 development programs Local Communities No such G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities – 168-169 operations Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks G4-SO3 37 168-169 identified Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 37 168-169 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 37 168-169 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for G4-PR3 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and 39 168-169 service categories subject to such information requirements Product and Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and G4-PR4 39 168-169 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 39 168-169 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 34-35 168-169 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and Compliance G4-PR9 39 168-169 use of products and services Financial Services Sector Supplement FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 13 168-169 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 13 168-169 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements FS3 68 168-169 included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as FS4 70 168-169 applied to business lines Product portfolio FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities 74 168-169 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector 15-21 168-169 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken FS7 54-58 168-169 down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business FS8 69-70 168-169 line broken down by purpose FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 46 168-169 Local communities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 46 168-169 Product and FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 39 168-169 Service Labeling FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 60 168-169 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 173 APPENDIX ISO 26000 INDEX Core Subjects Issues Pages Core Subjects Issues Pages Governance Decision-making process and structure 10-13 Anti-corruption 36-37 Due diligence 36-37 Responsible political involvement Fair operating Human rights risk situations 36-37 Fair competition 53 practices Avoidance of complicity 36-37 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 53, 70 Respect for property rights 34-35, 53 Human Resolving grievances 51-52 rights Fair marketing 36-37 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 46, 48-49 Protecting consumers’ health and safety Civil and political rights 51-52 Sustainable consumption 54-58 Economic, social and cultural rights 49-52 Consumer Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute Fundamental principles and rights at work 47-52 38-39 issues resolution Employment and employment relationships 48, 52 Consumer data protection and privacy 34-35 Conditions of work and social protection 49-52 Access to essential services 46 Labor Social dialogue 51-52 Education and awareness 60, 66, 72 practices Health and safety at work 50 Community involvement 61-67 Human development and training in the workplace 47 Education and culture 66 Prevention of pollution 71 Community Employment creation and skills development 48, 60, 64 involvement Sustainable resource use 75-77 Technology development and access 40-41, 60, 63-64 and The development Wealth and income creation 40-41 environment Climate change mitigation and adaptation 71-72 Health 65 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and 71 restoration of natural habits Social investment 65-67 APPENDIX UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX UN Global Compact principles compliance Principle Page Human Rights Principle1 B  usinesses should support and respect theprotection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 5 Principle 2 m  ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 36-37 Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 52 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 49 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and – Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 48-49 We joined the UN Global Compact, the Environment UN International convention on corporate social responsibility in July, 2006 and Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 14, 71 complies with the 10 principles in the 4 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 68-77 areas (human rights/labor/environment/ anti-corruption) Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 69-70 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 36-37, 53 174 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Survey of Reader's DGB Financial Group 2013-2014 Sustainability Report Opinions Post Card From : 우편요금 수취인 후납부담 Address : 발송유효기간 2014.8.1~2015.7.31 대구수성우체국 승인 제40118호 CSR Department DGB Economic Research Institute 15th floor, Daegu Bank headquarters 2310 Dalgubeoldaero, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Korea DGB Financial Group welcomes your feedback DGB Financial Group on this report. We will carefully review your DGB Economic Research Institute opinions and suggestions and do our best to Tel: 82-53-740-7971 reflect them in our future planning. Please fill Fax: 82-53-740-7997 out the form below and send it to us via fax or E-mail: sustainability@dgbfn.com mail. Thank you for your interest and time. Address: 2310 Dalgubeoldaero, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Korea 1. To which group do you belong? ① DGB Financial Group Customers ② DGB Financial Group Employees ③ Business Partners ④ Local residents ⑤ NGOs ⑥ Academia ⑦ Government ⑧ Others ( ) 2. Where did you learn about this report? ① DGB Financial Group /Daegu Bank websites ② DGB Financial Group’s IR activities ③ Other websites ④ Forums/Seminars ⑤ Others ( ) 3. Which part of this report did you find most interesting? ① ISO 26000 responsiveness ② Responsible management ③ Sustainable finance ④ Community engagement and development ⑤ Green management ⑥ IMPACT AREAS 4. Do you think this report transparently reflected the Group’s management performance results? ① Perfectly reflected ② Well reflected ③ Enough ④ Not enough ⑤ To be improved 5. Which area of sustainability management do you find DGB is most active in? ① Sustainable finance (socially responsible investments, etc.) ② Environmental management (energy saving and ecosystem restoration, etc.) ③ Social contribution activities (volunteer activities, etc.) ④ Corporate culture (ethical management and sharing activities, etc.) 6. Please state any areas you believe we need to further improve in this report. Contact Information If you have any inquiries regarding our sustainability management practices or any information/data contained in this report, please contact us at; Daegu Financial Group www.dgbfn.com Daegu Bank www.dgb.co.kr DGB Capital www.dgbfncapital.co.kr U-Payment www.ubi-pay.com DGB Data System www.dgbds.co.kr Daegu Credit Information www.daegucredit.co.kr DGB Financial Group DGB Economic Research Institute Address: 2310 Dalgubeoldaero, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Korea Tel: +82-53-740-7971 Fax: +82-53-740-7997 e-mail: sustainability@dgbfn.com DGB Financial Group 2013-2014 Sustainability Report This report was printed with soy-based ink on eco-friendly paper.
