Statement of support For years, Rollenbau has been an example of the fact that economic growth can be combined with environmentally friendly and socially responsible policies and that this balance simultaneously represents the basis for long-term successful business activities. In an interview the Danish designer Peter Ingwersen, formerly director of Levi’s Europe and creator of the sustainable luxury fashion label NOIR, said that he believed that business models were more likely to change the world than charity and that his favourite website for finding ethically responsible companies was that of United Nations Global Compact. These words made an impact on me and prompted me to cast a first glance at the UN Global Compact platform founded by Kofi Annan. Since then I have visited the website many times. Rollenbau has been registered as a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since the beginning of June 2007. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Rollenbau is committed to implementing the Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in our everyday business operations. We also fulfil our social responsibility in a variety of ways. Our commitment to ensuring the well-being of our employees by paying fair and attractive salaries and maintaining a positive corporate culture characterized by openness, loyalty and mutual respect, is as important to us as our efforts to satisfy our customers. After all, our aim is that our customers find precisely the right castor or wheel to keep their working processes efficient. High-level internal control mechanisms for all processes are the warranty that our customers get the quality they expect. Rollenbau has been EN ISO 9001 certified since 1994. Leadership means not only communicating a clear message but also acting with integrity and leading by example.This approach encompasses a high level of transparency and the willingness to engage in an ongoing dialogue, both inside and outside the company. The Communication on Progress reviews in detail how we have been applying the ten principles. Through the action of its members, the Global Compact can provide an accelerated movement toward an ethical global market economy. I am proud that our company is providing a stimulus for sustainability, which takes account of economic, ecological and social aspects, and I will ensure that Rollenbau continues to advance the principles in everything we do. Karl Alfons Rosse Chief Executive UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Participant name: ROLLENBAU GmbH Country: Austria Sector: Castors and wheels Joining date: 6 June 2007 Contact person: Anita Rosse Website: www.rollenbau.com Date: 19 February 2010 Rollenbau has been a participating member of the UN Global Compact since 2007. The table below gives an overview of the main points. Global Compact Action Taken and Plans for the upcoming Year Further information is Principle Summary, measures and results available at Human Rights Principle 1: Rollenbau recognizes local, national and international laws, directives and standards and fully Company Mission Businesses should complies with them. The company mission statement states clearly that the company undertakes to Statement: support and respect be a reliable and fair business partner for all people with whom it deals.The Company Mission http://www.rollen.at/opens the protection of Statement is published on the company’s website. hop/en/unternehmen/unter internationally nehmensleitbild.html proclaimed human We conduct our business activities with honesty, integrity and respect for human rights and the rights. interests of our employees and all those with whom we have relationships within our sphere of influence. We refrain from commercial dealing with firms in any country against which UN trade sanctions or embargoes were imposed. Effective regulations are implemented to prevent accidents and minimise health risks: Ergonomic design of terminal workplaces (distance, height, direction of light, ergonomic swivel chairs, The data is taken from flat-screen monitors) internal and external Light fittings were exchanged to guarantee adequate lighting audit reports Marking of fall hazard areas (e.g. loading ramp), fire extinguishers and escape routes (AUVAsicher Wien). Prevention of trip hazards (cable) Use of personal protective equipment (e.g. work boots) No appreciable noise exposure in the warehouse or shop area We have a trained first aider No accident occurred during the reporting period. Rollenbau provides a package of fringe benefits to employees, including 3 € allowance per lunch, except for junk food Free fruit and non alcoholic beverages Fitness centre, one-year pass Rollenbau participates in numerous social activities, which often involve the local population and cooperation with interest groups, authorities and sport clubs. In the case of sports clubs, there are many examples of how the company supports youth work, also in the form of sponsoring socially disadvantaged children. Rollenbau is one of the main sponsors of the AON-Fivers handball team, especially at youth level. http://fivers.sportlive.at/sp onsoring.php Support of disadvantaged groups: Zukunft für Kinder, ZUKI – aid to street children and children who have no chance to get school www.zukieducation and medical care in India zukunftfuerkinder.at http://www.rollenbau.at/Bi lder/ZUKI.pdf Caritas Erzdiözese Wien child & youth care center “Am Himmel“ www.caritas-wien.at/hilfeeinrichtungen/menschenmit-behinderung/kinderjugendliche/ “Rettet das Kind (save the child)“ – independent and denominationally unaffiliated child aid www.rettet-das-kindorganization tirol.at Christmas cards CAMILLO PASTILLO – illustrated manual for children with cancer and their families for a better understanding of the effects and adverse effects of chemotherapy Authors: Danielle Willert Eva Morent-Gran Principle 2: Rollenbau is committed to achieving high ethical standards in business transactions, Declaration of Human Make sure that they not least due to its unambiguous commitment to the upholding of human rights. Rights are not complicit in human rights abuses. Suppliers and contractors must fulfil the human rights standards to qualify for cooperation. Rollenbau was awarded the Austrian e-Commerce trust mark (Euro-Label Austria). http://www.guetezeichen.a t/english.html The e-Commerce trust mark is awarded to companies which distinguish themselves by serious business transactions and customer friendliness beyond the minimum statutory requirements. The e-Commerce trust mark is supported and recognized by consumer protection organizations, public bodies, and associations representing the industry. The criteria for the trust mark include the definition of new quality standards in the areas of supplier identification, contractual terms and conditions, product descriptions, forms of payment, permissible response times, rights of cancellation and return and data protection. Labour Principle 3: Rollenbau is committed to a working environment where there is mutual trust and respect and where External audit handling Businesses should everyone feels responsible for the performance and reputation of our company. of employees‘ rights uphold the freedom of AUVA association and the Our employees are ambassadors and our public face, while on business and out of hours. effective recognition of the right to collective We strive to treat our people fairly and responsibly, to help them achieve their full potential and to bargaining. respect their community commitments. We respect the dignity of the individual and the right of employees to freedom of association. We also ensure direct and open communication between employees and management. The feedback helps us understand how our people feel about working here and how we might improve. Principle 4: We will not use any form of forced and compulsory labour. ILO-Convention No. 29 The elimination of all forms of forced and We provide our employees with fair and competitive compensation and benefits. Our wages meet or compulsory labour. exceed local market conditions and thus ensure an adequate standard of living for our employees and their families. Our compensation systems are linked to company and individual performance. Hours of work comply with applicable laws and industry standards. In any event, employers and workers shall not be required to work in excess of 48 hours a week on a regular basis. Overtime shall be voluntary and is compensated at a premium rate. Wages and benefits paid by our suppliers for a standard working week shall meet at least legal or industry minimum standards and always be sufficient to meet the basic needs of workers and their families. The furtherance of the compatibility of professional and family life is an expression of a responsible approach to the workforce. Rollenbau endeavours to meet individual employee needs through flexible working hours and the support of employees during parental leave. We are committed to safe and healthy working conditions for all employees. A major focal point is raising awareness of workplace safety in our employees. Safety experts support the management in accident and disease prevention by implementing appropriate measures. Practice-oriented training programs for employees and managers have been an established practice in our company for years. The aim is improvement and fine-tuning of personal working techniques in order to generate increased job satisfaction, efficiency and effectiveness in the office workplace. Principle 5: We follow a clear zero tolerance to child labour policy. We do not tolerate child labour in our supply ILO-Convention No. 138 The effective abolition chain either, where we take action against known cases of violations. and 182 of child labour. Principle 6: Equal treatment of all employees is a fundamental principle of our corporate policy. ILO-Convention No. 111 The elimination of discrimination in We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities respect of needed for the work to be performed. No person is to be unfairly disadvantaged or favoured because employment and of ethnic or racial status, nationality, religion, gender, age, union membership, sexual orientation or occupation. parental status. Job advertisements guarantee equal access to all competent candidates. Consequently, fair and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Rollenbau. 38% of our employees have an immigration background and 25% are female. We believe that a working environment which is free from harassment and where diversity thrives is key to attracting and retaining the best people. A diverse workforce enables us to understand the needs of our diverse customers. Environment Principle 7: Sustainable development is about meeting the needs of society today without compromising the A study was conducted Businesses should ability of future generations to survive and prosper. We aim to grow our business in a sustainable and by EEC Energy and support a environmentally responsible way through focusing on reducing our carbon footprint and obtaining Environmental precautionary more materials from sustainable sources. Consulting GmbH, approach to Claudia Rosmanith, environmental The precautionary approach of our company guarantees that it collects information in order to Mödling challenges. identify, monitor and assess the possible environmental effects of its products and services. In particular through preferable use of renewable energy sources and systematic reduction of http://www.rollenbau.at/Bi polluting emissions and raising awareness levels among customers and employees with regard to the lder/testimonials.pdf conscious use of energy. Our products are made of ecologically safe high-quality materials and meet high safety and health standards. Principle 8: We are at the start of the journey to minimize our carbon footprint throughout our supply chain and Undertake initiatives enterprise but recognise how we can directly and indirectly influence carbon emissions. to promote greater environmental As part of this recognition we have purchased 100% of our electricity requirements from certified responsibility. renewable sources. In recent years, we have taken clear steps to increase our energy efficiency. Projects that have yielded significant savings include: Energy-saving mode Energy-saving equipment, e.g. the use of multiple socket outlet strips Replacement of wasteful traditional lighting products with low-energy alternatives Deployment of motion sensors to control lighting in our warehouses Installation of simple time controls on heating to reduce the energy consumption out of working hours At the beginning of 2009, we decided to virtualize as much of our hardware as possible in order to reduce the electricity consumed by running a server on a 24/365 basis. This provided an energysavings potential of around 650 kWh per annum. Since 2006 we have offered our customers e-invoicing with digital signatures. Electronic invoices save time, money and trees. The service, which is provided free of charge, offers timeand cost savings, environmental and security benefits for both Rollenbau and its clients. We only use Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified papers that meet its strict standards for sustainable forestry and management of the chain of custody, from processing to final distribution. Also our current 312 page catalogue number of copies: 20,000 was printed on FSC-certified paper. Our waste consists predominately of cardboard and plastic packaging, but we have also installed recovery equipment to recycle aluminium and recycling stations for office waste. Castors and wheels which were deleted from our program but are still fully functional are not simply disposed of but made available for use in developing countries. Further planned measures: introduction of company cars with low consumption engine technology Principle 9: As a result of our commitment to sustainability Rollenbau was awarded the ÖkoBusinessPlan Wien – www.wien.gv.at/umwelts Encourage the Modul ÖkoBonus in March 2009. chutz/oekobusiness/ development and diffusion of With ÖkoBonus, businesses focus on reduction of operating costs and simultaneously easing the environmentally pressure on the environment. Central points are waste avoidance and waste management, climate friendly technologies. protection and energy saving. The ÖkoBusinessPlan Wien includes individualized, subsidized consulting on site provided by selected ÖkoBusinessPlan consultants, workshops, a presentation of the measures implemented before a jury, and public relations with high media impact. Thanks to the innovative energy of the participating businesses ÖkoBusinessPlan Wien has become a showcase project that is recognized throughout Europe and motivates an increasing number of businesses to take environmentally relevant measures. We hope that thus more and more businesses will recognize that environmental protection, corporate success and quality of life complement each other – to everyone’s benefit. Besides, we support a reforestation project in Colombia. With the greenhouse gas value is determined and paid. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Rollenbau supports the conduct of business in a corruption free environment where all companies United Nations Businesses should have an equal opportunity to compete for business. Convention against work against all forms Corruption of corruption, including Corruption erodes integrity, undermines trust and the rule of law, destroys reputation and enables extortion and bribery. terrorists to finance their nefarious operations. Therefore Rollenbau clearly says NO to corruption and Company Mission is committed to the international standards set forth in the United Nations Convention against Statement: Corruption. http://www.rollen.at/opens hop/en/unternehmen/unter The basis for successful and sustained business activity is integrity and transparency in all business nehmensleitbild.html actions. Transparent processes are also documented through audits performed by Bureau Veritas Quality www.bureauveritas.com International Austria (BVQI) at regular intervals. Rollenbau does not directly or indirectly offer, give or receive any gift, payment or personal benefit in exchange for business or financial gain. Generally, modest forms of courtesy gifts and entertainment received from vendors are acceptable and do not create conflicts of interest. Gifts of ''insignificant value'', i.e. currently € 50, from one business associate per year are allowed. Gifts of more than ''insignificant value'' or of uncertain value must be refused. All employees are required to report any questionable conduct to the management. In the case of violation of the Business Principles, disciplinary measures up to and including Contract of employment termination of employment may be taken. No cases of corruption were ascertained in the last two years.
