Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legisla AS3 COMPANIES’ SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND RESULTS COP REPORT 2013 GLOBAL COMPACT The Global Compact comprises 10 principles for social responsibility based on internationally ratified conventions for labour and human rights, as well as the environment and anti-corruption. The CSR initiative is universal and constitutes a “common language” across national borders, which can be adapted to companies’ specific needs and situations because of its flexibility and voluntary nature. Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. The businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The businesses should support an effective abolition of child labour. 6. The businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. The businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. The businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How AS3 utilise the Global Compact • As a framework for conducting CSR initiatives within the company and to ensure that our business partners support the principles of the Global Compact. • As a basis for communication with the world around us – we want to convey our views on social responsibility and our work in this field. • As a platform for dialogue with our clients and external business partners. INTRODUCTION In December 2011, AS3 aligned Additionally, we also want to conwith the ten principles of the UN tribute to an increased awareness Global Compact in the areas of huof the Global Compact, in the hope man rights, labour, the environment that more companies in the service and anti-corruption. 2012 was an sector choose to follow the same anchor year and it was in 2013 that path. we were able to assess the results of the increased awareness in these The report is not only a form of Allan Gross-Nielsen, areas for the first time. This report reporting to the UN, but is just as CEO sets out the results. much a communication of our messages, challenges and achievements 2013 has been an instructive year. to the various stakeholders, with We gained a better overview of how whom we are in contact in a variety comprehensive our efforts in the of ways, and to others who have an CSR area already are, while at the interest in CSR and in taking social same time having embarked on a responsibility. process of maturation, in which we strive to make our efforts more foHappy reading. cused and longer term . The purpose of the report is to tell the world around us who we are and why it makes sense to relate ourselves to the ten principles as a Global Compact business. CONTENTS INTRODUCTION ABOUT AS3 COMPANIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 OUR APPROACH – WE STRIVE TO BE EVEN BETTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 CODE OF CONDUCT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 HUMAN RIGHTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 LEGISLATION SETTING THE FRAMEWORKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 INCLUSIVENESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 ABOUT AS3 COMPANIES Since its founding in 1989, the The common aspect of all AS3 To us, it is about showing respect guiding philosophy of AS3 ComCompanies’ services is that we and an interest in clients, candipanies has been that business dework to strengthen each individual’s dates and employees in our daily cisions must benefit the business labour market readiness for the work. while also contributing to society. benefit of themselves, the business To us, this represents a major part world and society. It is also about having an eye for of what societal responsibility is all how our way of doing business afabout. AS3 Companies is a value-based fects society. For example, our work company. We want to act in a busiwith supporting people is an imporSince 1989, AS3 Companies has ness-oriented and decent manner. tant contribution to the individual specialised in providing counselling This means that we take responsiand to society as a whole. services to organisations and peobility and are willing to do more than ple regarding job-related changes what is expected of us in our daily In more specific terms we coun– we call this area of business “Job work. selled 29,500 individuals in the Transition Management”. Nordic countries in 2013. In the It also means that we as a company vast majority of these cases we have AS3 Companies now holds a leadstrive to meet the expectations of a either been supporting citizens in ing position in the Nordic Job Transocially responsible company – also getting out the national unemploysition Management market, with called Corporate Social Responsibilment systems or in keeping them more than 250 employees and 300 ity. It is quite natural for us to transfrom entering them. freelance counsellors. They work late CSR into societal from AS3’s more than 60 offices in responsibility. We also support other companies in the largest cities in Denmark, Norstrengthening their societal responway, Sweden and Finland. sibilities, thus making an impact on the business world’s overall societal responsibilities. 1 COP Rapport 2013 ABOUT AS3 COMPANIES VALUES Our joining the Global Compact is AS3’s VISION Our range of services is rooted in a signal to the world and ourselves the group’s two core values – that we take our share of the reWe strive to be the leading business-oriented and decent. sponsibility for solving some of the and most respected major challenges faced by our socompany in Job Transition Being decent means being honest, ciety. Management in the Nordic empathetic, respectful and good at Region. communicating with one another and the people with whom we do business. Being business-oriented means that we are professional and that we make a difference for our clients, business partners, private individuals in counselling and our colleagues, while remaining down to earth. AS3’S CREDO We have developed a Credo comprising the three main requisites we see as vital for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness in the future job market: • Increasing the labour force Decent Businessoriented • Retaining employees • Increasing agility COP Rapport 2013 2 OUR APPROACH – WE STRIVE TO BE EVEN BETTER Planning Goal Code of Action Conduct Evaluation STRUCTURE OF CSR WORK AT AS3 COMPANIES In connection with joining the Global Compact, we have structured our work in this area to ensure a consistent standard in terms of method, progression and reporting in relation to the Global Compact. This means that we continuously plan, act, evaluate and set new goals regarding our desire to be a socially responsible company. 3 COP Rapport 2013 OUR APPROACH – WE STRIVE TO BE EVEN BETTER Our values set the framework for • be open about our work, in the our actions and the way we do busihope that this can affect sociness. Based on the 10 principles of ety as a whole. the Global Compact, we have established a Code of Conduct, which we How do we integrate Global Comcall our Nordic responsibility code. pact? • in the training of new employThis helps us to: ees at AS3 Academy • implement strategies and activ• Distribution of information letities that strengthen our work ters to close suppliers regardwith the four main areas of our ing our commitment to the Code of Conduct to ensure that Global Compact and how this it becomes a conscious part of will affect our cooperation with the way we run AS3. them in the future. • structure the areas we would • Describe Global Compact in like to have an increased focus our tendering templates. on, and the things we want to • We present Global Compact do better. via our internal brochure ”AS3 • be even clearer in our dialogue Companies’ Societal Responsiwith business partners about bility” on trade fairs. our expectations and demands • Presentation on www.as3comthat they take their societal repanies.com. sponsibility just as seriously as we do. We translate words into action and it is our goal to continuously improve the results and impact of our activities. COP Rapport 2013 4 8 CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct comprises We have therefore made a promise CODE OF CONDUCT four main areas: to the market and ourselves: Human Rights Legislation setting the 1. Human Rights AS3 Companies’ services are frameworks built on a fundamental To comply with the law and respect for human rights. agreements is a must and a minimum requirement that As a company, we are AS3 Companies demands of 2. Legislation setting the frameWe are there for the individual clicommitted to complying with itself. Moreover, we want to international conventions and responsible business do more than is expected of practices in relation to human rights and equality. us in specific areas. AS3 Companies therefore states its unequivocal support We focus on conducting ourselves in a professional and works ent and we are there for the indifor the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. responsible manner in all situations. It is crucial for us that we never compromise our credibility. This means for example, that we want to enter into a dialogue with our partners and suppliers about how we 3. Inclusiveness vidual in our counselling. We are comply with legislation and behave responsibly and comply with the applicable standards and conventions. Inclusiveness Environmental 4. Environmental responsibility also there for our colleagues at AS3 AS3 Companies hires a responsibility person for a position who In AS3 Companies we focus has the personal and on our environmental efforts professional competencies to limit the direct that match the requirements environmental impacts of our Companies. This promise requires we demand for the job. activities. Our primary impact on the environment comes from the resources we use We see it as a strength that our employees have different in our office facilities and in our interplay with each experiences and different professional competencies. other, our clients and our business partners. We endeavour to ensure frameworks for a workplace; The areas of our Code of Conduct us to remain attentive and present We continuously strive to increase employee awarewhere the working conditions, well-being and developness and competencies concerning our impact on the mental conditions are the same for everyone irrespective environment and the climate. We purchase and use of their gender, age, handicap, ethnicity, colour, religion, consumables and equipment that supports a good sexual orientation and social status. environment as well as a good working environment and we reduce our energy consumption and waste are formulated to reflect and supin our work – which is the only way generation on an ongoing basis. port the principles of the UN Global we can make a difference. Torben Ballegaard Sørensen, Chairman Einar W. Jenssen, CEO AS3 Norway Compact. Eva Swartz Grimaldi, Board member Allan Gross-Nielsen, CEO Katarina Moberg, CEO AS3 Sweden Through support and signatures Christian Lund, Board member Leena Airola, CEO AS3 Finland Our Code of Conduct means that from our external board and our we have precisely formulated what Nordic management team we are we expect of ourselves and that we committed at all levels of the organtake a special responsibility in these isation to comply with the guidefour main areas. lines set out in our Code of Conduct. At AS3 Companies, we stress the importance of providing the right counselling services to management and employees, and we believe that such services must be tailored to the specific situation. COP Rapport 2013 6 SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2013, we have shown social reMentoring and Coaching Council opportunities and charity, from a sponsibility by supporting various and currently occupies the position business perspective. We expect to activities. A few of these activities of chairman. develop the strategy in 2014. are presented here. FOUNDATIONS AND INITIATIVES GLOBAL COMPACT DILEMMA TRAINING In 2013, AS3 was associated as a GAME AS3 has financially supported Christmas gift sponsor for the Youth Based on the Global Compact Aarhus Academy for Global EducaRed Cross, which distributes ChristDilemma Game (developed by tion. mas gifts to children at centres for KPMG), we have developed a cuswomen in crisis. tomised game that is matched to WE TAKE PART AS3’s daily work. The game and We maintain close relationships Our Norwegian and Swedish offices these questions are available as a with the Danish universities and achave supported SOS Children's Vilmeans to put CSR on the agenda of tively participate with speakers and lages with their Christmas greeting. our organisation. panel participants in areas relating to our professional field. We also We have participated in a sporting COLLABORATION WITH EXPERT invite educational institutions inside event for the Children's Heart FounGROUP so they can gain insights in how the dation. We are working on going into theory can be used in practice. partnership with a group of experts STRATEGY whose area of focus is microjobs. NETWORK In 2013, we set out to formulate an In short, this is about the group of AS3 occupies numerous important overall strategy for how and what experts seeking funds for severely posts, through which we take we will support, by way of commumentally unstable academics, so responsibility and have potential to nity projects. To define the strategy, that they are able to get help after wield influence. we have been in discussions with graduation, and their talents do not several potential partners, including go to waste. We hope, with this colAS3 is active on the board of the in the form of other foundations and laboration, to be able to assist the Danish job counsellors trade orNGOs. Decision-making has been group of experts with knowledge of ganisation. drawn out because of the Danish the labour market and possibly with government's still incomplete emmore practical help with regard to AS3 is active in the board of the ployment reforms, which may afcompany contacts. Danish branch of the European fect the balance between business 7 COP Report 2013 WE GO THAT EXTRA MILE Our work with supporting people is an important contribution to the individual and to society as a whole. We also support other companies in strengthening their societal responsibility, thus making an impact on the business world’s overall societal responsibility. HUMAN RIGHTS AS3 supports the principles of the n our work, we always start with the UN Universal Declaration of Huindividual and a high degree of reman Rights, the European Convenspect for differences in values, betion on Human Rights and the baliefs and cultural backgrounds. sic labour rights expressed in ILO conventions. These principles are Our programmes and services are generally already incorporated into individually tailored to accommoDanish law. date and respect the individual. Our counsellors’ approach involves We are committed as a company seeing possibilities instead of limitato comply with international contions and a belief that everyone has ventions and good business pracsomething to contribute. It is about tices in relation to human rights and creating the framework for the indiequality. vidual meeting, where respect for the individual is all-important. AS3 therefore expresses its full support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Our services are based on a fundamental respect for human rights. Declaration of Human Rights Article 1 “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” 9 COP Rapport 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 EFFORT 2013 On this basis, we could and wanted FOCUS 2014 Our efforts in the field of human to establish and qualify dialogue on In 2014 we will initiate a large-scale rights in 2013 focused on clarifying several levels. We must thus relate training programme, which means AS3 's humanitarianism to be better in a way that is investigative and atthat all employees and freelancers able to work with CSR initiatives in tentive, if we are to contribute conmust complete an accredited the area. We formulate AS3 's hustructively to conversations. training course in this area. manitarianism as follows: We have chosen an understandThe course is a 2-day programme AS3 is carried by an egalitarian view ing-based approach to coaching, leading to an examination. This enof humanity in which we are eclectic because it creates a positive effect sures a common language and unin our theoretical approach, dialogiin the long term and because it is derstanding in relation to AS3's cal in our methods and asymmetric consistent with our optimistic view view of human nature and approach in our form. of human nature and our belief to coaching that every human being should be Egalitarian humanitarianism means acknowledged, is an expert in their that all people have the same right own business and has the capacity to develop and to act in the world. to evolve and change. Egalitarian humanitarianism also means that one must recognise Furthermore, we believe that the equality, regardless of the race, age, motivation to create lasting change gender, opinion, religion and the can not be imposed from outside, like of the focus person. but comes from within through improved understanding. COP Rapport 2013 10 LEGISLATION SETING THE FRAMEWORKS Compliance with laws and agreeAS3 assumes greater responsiments is a matter of course and a bility and exceeds the minimum minimum requirement that AS3 has requirements regarding working set for itself. We also strive to do environment. We do this because more than what is expected of us in we believe that a good working enspecific areas. vironment benefits our employees and, ultimately, our clients, candiWe are dedicated to being profesdates and business partners. sional and responsible in all contexts. It is vital to us that we never This means, among other things, compromise our credibility. This that we work hard to secure the means for example that we seek necessary framework for a workdialogue with our business partners place where we thrive and where and suppliers about how they obthere is a work-life balance. serve all laws, act responsibly and comply with applicable standards and conventions. 11 COP Report 2013 LEGISLATION SETTING THE FRAMEWORKS EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 EFFORT 2013 Besides the fact that we will always Below we present some examples aim to comply with health and of CSR activities in 2013 relating to safety legislation, it is important for “legislation sets the framework”. us to achieve the goals we set for ourselves in the field. Our ability to TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT achieve health and safety objectives AS3 is a member of the trade ashas been improved from 2012 to sociations, the Danish Chamber of 2013. Commerce and the Confederation of Danish Employers. Our employFOCUS 2014 ees are covered by the collective We will continue to keep ourselves agreement with the trade union HK updated on relevant legislation and Warehouse and Office. We have continually assess how it adds value extended our collective agreement to do something extra. coverage in 2013. WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENT AS3’s Danish offices have obtained workplace environment certification and work is being done systematically to continually improve the working environment. This work includes: • Contingency plans • Annual well-being surveys • First aid training courses • Health scheme • Goals and plans of action COP Report 2013 12 INCLUSIVENESS At AS3, we hire the person who AS3 is an inclusive company with possesses the personal and proroom for diversity. The recruitment of new employees is fessional competencies needed to based on the principle of “the right meet the requirements of the job. We take societal responsibility by person for the right job”. We see it as a strength that our embeing open to people who are outployees have different experiences side – or at the risk of being outside and a varying range of professional – of the labour market. competencies. In our sickness absence policy, we Thus, in our quest for inclusiveness work actively with the retention Everyone has something to contribute. we never deprive individuals or the of sick employees. We think in terms of resources and company of the opportunity for competencies, rather than problems and success. limitations. We believe that people can develop if the conditions are right. We strive to provide the framework for a workplace with equal conditions in terms of work, well-being and development for all, regardless of gender, age, handicap, ethnic origin, race, religion, sexual orientation or social status. 13 COP Rapport 2013 INCLUSIVENESS EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 When we measure space in AS3, AS3 has participated in various this is done through a range of raevents such as A Day With and tios: CompanyDATING in collaboration with Aarhus University for the purIn 2013, we employed 68% women pose of making contact with the and 32% men in Denmark. student environment. We have had 14 young people in FOCUS 2014 training or job work experience It is our goal in 2014 to increase and have taken on six employees in the data base so that we can betflex jobs. In addition, we have emter document inclusiveness. At the ployed 22 students as a supplement same time, we want to maintain the to their studies. level of current inclusiveness. The goal was to hire an additional trainee clerk in 2013. Because of time constraints, we decided that it was not prudent to initiate a 2-year training programme for a trainee. Instead, we entered into a series of short-term internship agreements with students, which fit better into current activity levels. COP Report 2013 14 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILTY At AS3, we focus our environmenOver the years we have taken varital efforts on limiting the direct enous measures to minimise the environmental impact of our activities. vironmental impact of our activities. We primarily impact the environThis is also reflected in our purchasment with the resources we use in ing policy. our office facilities and through our interaction with each other, our clients and our partners. We strive continuously to promote employee awareness and knowledge regarding our impact on the environment and climate. We purchase and use supplies and equipment that support a good environment and working environment, and we continuously work to reduce our energy consumption and waste production. 15 COP Rapport 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 INITIATIVES 2013 Despite the increase in paper conIn 2013, we started a blog to create PAPER CONSUMPTION sumption, we have reduced the involvement and knowledge within Our supplier of printed materials number of paper containers at our the organisation . It has created uses FSC certified paper, so all of head office. content for a catalogue of ideas that our Consumption Year new editions of books, magahave been completed and will be zines and brochures are registered 2010 134.439 2011 123.036 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION made publicly available over AS3 2012 88.425 with the FSC label. 2013 108.202 We have installed energy-saving intranet so that it can inspire emlight bulbs and energy-saving powployees to incorporate new envi160.000 Consumption 140.000 Development in paper consumption er strips within the organisation. ronmental considerations into their 120.000 134.439 123.036 daily lives at work. 100.000 108.202 Our Powermeter for the recording 80.000 88.425 60.000 of electricity consumption is still In 2014, we have observed a stable 40.000 functional in 2013 at our various loelectricity consumption at the main EL-forbrug 2013 Fanøgade HCV Total 20.000 cations. Our measurements, which AS3 offices, in spite of a number of Måned January Forbrug 7.374 Forbrug 10.774 Forbrug 18.148 0 February 5.880 8.460 14.340 2010 2011 2012 2013 Year can be seen on the next page on energy-saving initiatives. When the March April 5.550 6.151 7.678 11.493 13.228 17.644 May 6.179 5.898 12.077 our Powermeter, have provided a initiative is not reflected, it may be June July 5.892 5.352 4.834 11.577 10.726 16.929 August 6.444 7.800 14.244 We have had continued focus on good pool of data to assess 2014 due to increased activity . September October November 6.348 6.822 6.072 10.341 8.315 12.505 16.689 15.137 18.577 reducing paper consumption but and we can see December 6.746 9.098 15.844 Total 74.810 108.773 183.583 after our annual statement we had a decrease in electricity consumpConsumption Electricity consumption Total 2013 20.000 18.000 18.148 18.577 17.644 to conclude that there has been a tion at some locations. 16.929 16.689 16.000 15.844 15.137 14.000 14.340 14.244 13.228 significant increase in paper con12.000 12.077 10.726 10.000 8.000 sumption. In 2013, AS3 6.000 4.000 2.000 went over 0 Month August May June July January February March April September December October November The reason for this increase should to climatebe seen with a view to an increase friendly elecin language school activity, which tricity. requires more hard-copy training materials. COP Rapport 2013 16 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 DIGITALISATION Going forward, AS3 sees great poAS3 FORUM ( AS3 PUBLIC AND OPTIMISING COMMUNICATION tential in continuing the digitalisaBtB) We are increasingly reliant on digital tion of our consulting services and A digital space for candidates, for communication solutions such as products. dialogue and for knowledge sharing Webex, Skype and the use of webiwith other like-minded people. nars, which adds increased flexibilBesides helping to strengthen and ity and limits the number of physical improve our communication platAS3 APP meetings. form in relation to employees, cusIn addition to general information tomers, candidates and partners, about AS3, the app is also able to TRANSPORT this digitalisation will play a fundaallow candidates and consultants In spite of this, we can see an inmental role in reducing the strain to log in and retrieve personal curcrease in transport costs, which can on the environment through rerent information about (for exambe justified by a wide geographical duced physical material consumpple) next due meetings, dates and distribution in relation to the estabtion and a reduced transportation times and addresses. The app also År lishmentForbrug of our language centres, requirements for both people and provides access to official AS3 2012 2.802 along 2013 with 3.833 a desire for greater manmaterials. materials plus the candidates' own agerial presence. electronic documents. 4.500 In 2013, we continued to focus on Number of km Development in transport 4.000 the development and implementaCANDIDATE PORTAL 3.500 3.833 3.000 tion of new IT initiatives in relation As a supplement to AS3 's Out2.500 2.802 to the above, which benefit the placement counselling (and more), 2.000 environment, both directly and inwe have launched the AS3 portal 1.500 1.000 directly. this year, which is a digital portal 500 and platform for use by candidates. 0 2012 2013 Year Specifically, we have been working The portal contains relevant inforon the following new initiatives: mation, self-study opportunities, Generally, at AS3 we encourage the communication and networking use of public transport. tools etc. 17 COP Rapport 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY EFFORT 2013 AND FOCUS 2014 FOCUS 2014 The Powermeter project will continue in 2014. In this project, we are following our progress in terms of electricity consumption at larger offices in Denmark . During 2014, we aim to set targets for ourselves for reductions in electricity consumption. The Candidate portal will eventually be expanded to also support interaction with our advisors, AS3's customers and other external stakeholders. In 2014, there will also be focus on reductions in electricity and paper consumption, as well as food waste. COP Report 2013 18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Joined 7 December 2011 Sector: Support Services Number of employees: 250 employees and 300 freelancers Reporting period: 1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013 Submission Date: Sent to the UN Global Compact, 1 March 2014 The report has been published on www.as3companies.com. AS3 Companies Hasselager Centervej 35 DK-8260 Viby J Denmark Phone: +45 8210 0000 Contact: Lotte Ø. Hougaard E-mail: loh@as3.dk Contact: Anne Mette Kalstrup E-mail: aka@as3.dk
