United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 FOUNDER’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT I am pleased to confirm that Euromonitor International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Euromonitor continues to expand as a company, opening our twelfth office in the last 12 months. As we steadily grow we recognise the need for the continued development of formal structures and associated training and policies to ensure enthusiastic adoption and application of the principles. We remain committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Robert Senior Founder May 2014 © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 2 ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL Euromonitor International is the world’s leading provider of global business intelligence and strategic market analysis. We have more than 40 years’ experience publishing international market reports, business reference books and online databases on consumer markets. We deliver market research solutions to support strategic planning for today’s increasingly international business environment. Our research offers in-depth market analysis on consumer goods and service industries worldwide, as well as economic, demographic and socio-economic data and insight on countries and consumers. Euromonitor International is headquartered in London, with regional offices in Chicago, Singapore, Shanghai, Vilnius, Santiago, Dubai, Cape Town, Tokyo, Sydney, Bangalore and São Paulo. We have a network of over 800 analysts worldwide. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment As an international organisation we recognise that there are differences in accepted practices with regards to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. However, we consistently seek to develop best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards rather than just local legal minimums. We are committed to the well-being of our employees, in-country analysts and contractors, creating safe, positive and professional work places. Implementation We have a range of policies that reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including our Equal Opportunities Policy, Flexible Working Policy and Maternity and Paternity Policies. Euromonitor International promotes an ‘open door’ culture and with continued support from the HR department all employees are encouraged to participate in dialogue on any subject matter. Colleagues in Euromonitor’s Singapore office raised SGD$5,000 for Transient Workers Count Too, a non-profit organisation dedicated to improving conditions for low-wage migrant workers in Singapore. The organisation provides social work assistance and food programmes as well as engaging in advocacy and awareness raising campaigns Measurement All policies are reviewed for suitability and effectiveness on an annual basis, or sooner, should a significant change occur. In the past year Euromonitor International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 4 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment It is Euromonitor International’s policy to provide employment, training, promotion, pay, benefits and other conditions of employment without regard to race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status, age and/or disability. By valuing diversity and equal opportunity, we benefit from a rich spectrum of experiences, skills and perspectives for all the clients we serve. Euromonitor International complies fully with all aspects of labour law in all countries in which it operates. Where our standards exceed those of local legislation, we apply our own policies. Euromonitor International has been working with UTZ Certified, a program and a label for sustainable farming of coffee, cocoa and tea. The partnership will allow UTZ Certified to make use of Euromonitor’s expertise and information in its efforts to expand the market for sustainably produced products. The important placed on health and safety, labour rights and access to education, decent housing and clean drinking water by the UTZ Certified programme aligns well with the UN Global Compact and is vital in creating sustainable communities Implementation Following the appointment of a new CEO and a restructuring of the Leadership Board HR and CSR now report into the same Director ensuring a more joined up approach to the implementation of the labour principles within Euromonitor International. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates, holiday and sickness entitlement. New employees are given a full induction upon joining the company which includes all policies and procedures relating to © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 5 health and safety, grievance procedures and appraisal processes. A copy of the staff handbook that details all company policies is also made available via our intranet and changes/updates are communicated to all employees. In 2014 a review of the wages of all contracted cleaning staff was undertaken to ensure they are paid realistic living wages, not just a minimum wage where there is one, in their country. This lead to an increase in London in line with the London Living Wage and a new company has been awarded the contract for the Cape Town office. Euromonitor International recognises the value of well trained and motivated employees and fully endorses appropriate training and development opportunities to achieve their full potential. An extensive internal training programme is available to all employees. To ensure fair and effective recruitment in 2013 “A Guide to Interviewing Best Practice” was added to the programme specifically including a section of the importance of diversity and equal opportunities. Measurement Annual appraisals are completed for Euromonitor International employees to identify personal development needs and training requirements, and where possible these are actioned. Those new to the company receive Appraisee training prior to a first six month appraisal to ensure they understand the benefits of an appraisal and can sufficiently prepare. Wage levels of contracted staff will continue to be reviewed by the CSR Manager in consultation with the HR and CSR Director on an annual basis. All employment information is controlled by the HR Department and relevant statistics (gender, ethnicity, age etc.) are available to the Leadership Board as required. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 6 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Although Euromonitor International’s direct impact on the environment is relatively small we are keen to ensure continued commitment to our internal policies and controls. We take our responsibility in supporting initiatives that prevent and manage environmental risk very seriously. In 2013-2014 we have actively promoted the following initiatives: • Waste reduction • Increased recycling • Double sided printing • Switching off lights and equipment when not in use • Efficient use of heating and air-conditioning including temperature limits • Promotion of public transport, cycling and car shares where appropriate • Greater use of teleconferencing and videoconferencing Implementation During the annual global Green Week Green Champions donate their time to deliver a programme of activities in their office to raise awareness of Euromonitor’s impact on the environment and highlight different ways we can reduce it. In April 2013 a global target to reduce energy consumption by 5% in each office was set and is continually monitored. We have seen significant reductions in 7 of our offices and will continue to promote positive green behaviour to help us reach the target globally. Euromonitor International’s London office balanced 388 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, associated with business travel, through the World Land Trust Carbon Balanced Programme. Our Singapore, Sydney, Vilnius and São Paulo offices all reviewed and improved the recycling services. Measurement The CSR Manager has ultimate responsibility for Euromonitor International’s environmental performances assisted by relevant colleagues, for example Office Managers and Green Champions. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 7 All electricity bills are submitted to the Corporate Social Responsibility Manager for comparison. Euromonitor International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and recycling. Reports are regularly reviewed to ensure our systems are effective with the majority of refuse produced being recycled. Where possible our offices measure all air travel. The number of inter-office flights is regularly reviewed against the usage of video conferencing facilities, available in our three largest offices. All flights from the London office are offset through the World Land Trust Carbon Balanced Programme. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any environmental incidents, nor has it been the subject of any investigations or legal proceedings by any regulating authority. Supertyphoon Haiyan was said to be one of the most powerful storms ever to make landfall in recorded history with sustained winds of up to 195 mph (315 kph). Euromonitor International offered a companywide match to all donations made by staff members. The combined donations totalling £9,126 were passed to The Disasters Emergency Committee, a group of 14 aid organisations providing relief in the area © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Euromonitor International is committed to conducting business ethically and honestly everywhere we operate regardless of local cultures and ways of doing business. Employees of Euromonitor International are made aware that bribery, corruption and extortion in any form is not tolerated within our company under any circumstances. Implementation All new employees, upon joining Euromonitor International, are given a copy of the AntiBribery and Corruption policy and are required to sign an acknowledgement slip confirming they have read and understood the policy. We have identified the risks for our company and ensure that all staff members are aware of these and the procedures in place to mitigate them. Euromonitor International employees are encouraged to report anything that they suspect or observe to be in contravention of the statement. All reports are confidential and are dealt with by our Operations Director in the first instance. Measurement Signed acknowledgement slips are kept on the employee file by HR. Any suspicions, concerns or queries are reported in the first instance to the Operations Director and subsequently shared with the CSR Manager for the purpose of monitoring and identifying any areas where additional support or training may be required. During the last 12 months Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. © Euromonitor International
