Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Contents Editorial Policy Contents • Editorial Policy • Corporate Profile 1 We publish the Minebea Group CSR Report annually as Commitment from the President 3 a way to inform our stakeholders of our Group’s CSR approach and initiatives. In addition to representative Establishment of Tokyo Research & Development Center 5 initiatives described in this report, our website provides Implementing the CSR Procurement Survey detailed information on corporate governance systems, 6 environmental measures and various other activities. Minebea Products in Society 7 This year’s report explains the mindset of our Manufacturing Spirit Deeply employees, who support the Minebea Group worldwide, Special Feature 1 Rooted in Minebea 9 in implementing CSR through their business activities. Cambodian Business Grows In feature articles on Japan and Cambodia, the report Special Feature 2 with Its Employees 13 also describes the initiatives the Group is taking for its employees, one of the most important stakeholder Special Being Welcomed Feature 3 by Local Communities 15 groups. We also introduce initiatives taken by our plants in Thailand, our largest manufacturing base, to grow with their local communities. Management Report We consider the publication of the CSR Report to be one CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results 17 important means of communication with stakeholders, and in keeping with this approach, we have endeavored Minebea Group CSR 19 to make the contents relevant and clear. We always Compliance 21 appreciate receiving forthright opinions and feedback Risk Management 22 from our readers. Social Report Relationships with Customers 23 ▶▶Scope of report Relationships with Employees 25 Minebea and 56 group companies Relationships with Suppliers 28 ▶▶Period covered by this report Relationships with Local Communities and Global Society 29 FY2013 (April 1, 2013-March 31, 2014) However, this includes some activities before this period Relationships with Shareholders 31 and from FY2014. ▶▶Publishing information Environmental Report Published September 2014 (previous edition published September Environmental Management 32 2013; next edition planned for September 2015) Initiatives for Preventing Global Warming 34 ▶▶Referenced guidelines Initiatives for Effective Use of Resources 35 Japanese Standards Association, ISO 26000:2010 Initiatives for Reducing Impacts (guidance on social responsibility) GRI “Sustainability on the Environment 36 Reporting Guidelines” (edition 3.1) Japanese Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Product-related Initiatives for the Environment 37 Reporting Guidelines” (2012 edition) ▶▶Enquiries regarding this report Third-party Opinion 38 CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Finance & Compliance Promotion Division, Minebea Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-3-6758-6724 1 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2014) Sales by business segment (FY2013) Corporate name Minebea Co., Ltd. Others 0.3% 996 Machined million yen Headquarters 4106-73 Oaza Miyota, Miyota-machi, components 38% Kitasaku-gun, Nagano 389-0293, Japan Electronic devices and 140,032 TEL: +81-267-32-2200 components million yen 62% 230,514 Tokyo Head Office 3-9-6 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo million yen 108-8330, Japan TEL: +81-3-6758-6711 Total production by region (FY2013) Established July 16, 1951 North America Europe 8% 4% Capital 68,258 million yen Malaysia Japan 1% 7% Representative Yoshihisa Kainuma, Representative Director, China 20% President and Chief Executive Officer Thailand Singapore 56% Machined component business, electronic 4% Main business devices and components business Net sales Consolidated: 371,543 million yen Sales by region (FY2013) Operating income Consolidated: 32,199 million yen Others 15% China (including Hong Kong) Ordinary income Consolidated: 28,065 million yen Europe 32% 11% Net income Consolidated: 20,878 million yen United States 10% Number of Japan employees Consolidated: 54,768 people Thailand 19% 13% Number of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 49 companies Information available on the CSR website: http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/environment/index.html The Minebea Group website is regularly updated to provide information on corporate governance and other detailed information on activities not included in this report. The website also offers information for investors. Please refer to the website for these types of information. ▶Information for investors ▶CSR Report 2014 detailed data ▶Recent CSR activities ▶Corporate governance information Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 2 Commitment from the President Looking Back on FY2013 I’m pleased to report that the various initiatives we have been taking to improve financial performance were successful in FY2013 amid an underlying recovery in the global economy. The Minebea Group posted strong growth for the year, reflecting higher sales of our mainstay ball bearings and other machined components, a turnaround in our motors business, and an expansion of our backlight business. Compared with the previous year, our sales surged 31.6% in FY2013 to 371,543 million yen, while our net income totaled 20,878 million yen. Both sales and net income exceeded the previous record highs posted in FY2007. We achieved this success by pursuing our mission to stably provide products with higher reliability and lower energy consumption to markets around the world, as stated in our Basic CSR Policy. In other words, we continued our commitment to our basic belief of “manufacturing with sincerity.” Of course, it Yoshihisa Kainuma Representative Director goes without saying that the dedication of our President and Chief Executive Officer employees and support from other stakeholders made Minebea Co., Ltd. this success possible. On behalf of the company, I wish to express my sincere gratitude for everyone’s Creating Products that Support unrelenting support. Sustainable Global Growth This was also a year in which we took initiatives to solidify our business foundation on the basis of our The global economy has returned to a steady growth basic management policy, the Five Principles. path after stalling in the wake of the Lehman crisis in In order to bolster our global CSR, we analyzed our 2008. While the quality of life is improving, it has CSR initiatives using ISO 26000*, an international become more urgent than ever to take initiatives to social responsibility standard, and identified areas in tackle the acceleration in climate change and other which we should take the initiative in addressing. We global environmental issues accompanying economic also appointed CSR Officers to all business sites, improvement. Put simply, in order to ensure continued including overseas sites, who will lead awareness sustainable growth, the world increasingly needs campaigns and monitor CSR implementation. In this enhanced safety, energy efficiency, and low way, we have strengthened our entire global CSR environmental impact in all types of products we use. management structure. The Minebea Group supplies a wide range of parts We believe that enhancing CSR throughout the used in end-products, and in consideration of our role, supply chain, and not just for our Group, is an we have launched the “Five Arrows” strategy. important part of our social responsibility. We One of the strategic arrows is to develop and boost therefore have submitted CSR Procurement Selfsales of Electro Mechanics Solutions (EMS) products. assessment Checklists to our suppliers in Japan and We plan to utilize our ultra-precision processing requested their cooperation in responding. Based on technology to generate new products required by the response, we plan to actively communicate with society, particularly products featuring energy efficiency, suppliers and expand the program to overseas safety and security. suppliers in the future as we improve our initiatives. In April 2013, we opened the new Tokyo Research & 3 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Development Center to spearhead our product superior technological and supply capabilities, even in development programs. The center will facilitate niche fields. Our 100th anniversary strategy is to collaboration laterally across organizations to maximize leverage this approach and make contributions to the Minebea Group’s capabilities and generate society in a broad range of fields by furthering our Commitment from products offering customers high added-value. commitment to “manufacturing with sincerity” and Another strategic arrow is to boost sales of lighting sharing our new Minebea vision with society. the President device-related products with the aim of contributing to We have incorporated this vision into our new more efficient energy management. We have begun medium-term business plan, which sets ambitious the development of lighting devices that can targets of 500 billion yen in sales and operating contribute to the realization of environmentally income of 50 billion yen for FY2016. I’ve been telling conscious “Smart Buildings” and “Smart Cities.” As our employees that high motivation and passion is the Hot Topics part of this initiative, in February 2014 we established key to achievement. This is a defining moment for the the joint venture MIK Smart Lighting Network Co., Ltd. Minebea Group. All employees of the Group will join with Iwasaki Electric Co., Ltd. and Koizumi Lighting together to achieve our goals, based on the corporate Technology Corp. Together, we will combine our message, “Passion to Exceed Precision.” technologies to pioneer the development of highly This report explains our business activities and CSR Minebea Products efficient lighting equipment. activities from many different perspectives. I look forward to hearing the opinions of our readers. in Society . Pursuing “Manufacturing with * ISO 26000: An international standard for social responsibility. The goal for organizations is not to receive certification, but rather to use the standard to effectively Sincerity” and Promoting a Strategy implement social responsibility. for the 100th Anniversary When I was appointed CEO 5 years ago, I made a Special Feature promise to build a foundation for our 100th anniversary. Minebea has always been attuned to the needs of society, responding to the demands of the age with Management Report “Five Arrows” Strategy Sell 150 million ball bearings externally per month on average Increase external ball bearing sales to an average of 150 million units/month at the earliest date. Develop and boost sales of new EMS products Develop new EMS (Electro Mechanics Solutions®) products and components by embracing TRDC (Tokyo Research & Development Center) motor technologies and accelerate the sales of EMS products. Social Report Boost sales of lighting device-related products Establish new business opportunities in connection with lighting device products, including street lights and their components developed by the Electric Device Division and its Technology Development Department, and enter the “Smart Building and Smart City” related products and components market. Take Measuring Components BU sales to 20 billion yen Environmental Report Based upon the BU’s strategy, which recognizes measuring components as sensors, increase the sales of measuring components-related products to around 20 billion yen at an early stage. Increase sales and profitability of aircraft components business Increase the sales of the aircraft components business, such as rod end bearings, centering on New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc. by taking advantage of its global presence in the industry, thereby striving to achieve substantial improvement in sales and profitability through maximizing synergetic effects. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 4 Hot Topics Establishment of Tokyo Research & Development Center Minebea opened the Tokyo Research & Development Center (TRDC) in April 2013 at facilities located in the Tokyo Head Office. TRDC utilizes a portfolio of superior technologies accumulated over the years by the Minebea Group to develop value-added products required by customers and society. Capitalizing on a geographical advantage of its location in Tokyo, TRDC is on a mission to attract and recruit excellent engineers and create an environment where all concerned business units can utilize the latest developments and information TRDC's as well as leading-edge technologies in the related industries. At the same time, TRDC’s mission includes assisting Minebea Mission to produce (design, develop and test) high-value-added future products for the customers in a speedy and efficient manner, centering around a development of brand-new hybrid and composite products unprecedented in the history of Minebea. Developing High Value-added Products Combining Our Total Capabilities Aiming for New Possibilities For more than 60 years since its founding in 1951, “Mobility,” “ ” “Work,” “ ” and “Fulfillment” “ f ” are three keywords Minebea has evolved as a richly unique company behind our development work. These keywords reflect leading a wide range of businesses, from bearings to our desire to instill security, safety, and comfort into the motors and measuring equipment. TRDC opened in basic human needs of food, clothing, and shelter. In the 2013 to leverage our superior portfolio of diverse area of “Mobility,” we aim to enable comfortable technologies and develop new EMS (Electro Mechanics movement for people anytime and anywhere. In the Solution) products. area of “Work,” we aim to solve work-related problems As stated in our mission, TRDC brings together and make work physically easier. In the area of development and technological resources from all areas “Fulfillment,” we aim to create technologies that can and departments of the Minebea Group to generate raise the quality of life and support a fulfilling society. As an example, Japan is facing the rapid aging of bridges, EMS products no other company can. The comprehensive roads and other social infrastructure. One means of development of technologies is a critical feature of our solving this issue is to create smarter systems capable work: we have accumulated a substantial portfolio of of inspecting, renewing, and monitoring the infrastructure. ultra-high precision processing technologies based on By leveraging our motor, optical device, and sensor which we have developed motors and sensors, as well technologies, we can support the development of highly as manufacturing technologies that make mass reliable and durable infrastructure systems. production possible. As part of our mission, we are In this way, we are focusing our efforts on areas where leveraging the convenience of our Tokyo location, we have a distinctive advantage, and using those areas where leading-edge technologies are concentrated, to as a foundation for new technology development. In the incorporate external resources to support the generation mediumto long-term, the development of many new of high value-added products. EMS products into pillars of growth will broadly contribute to the advancement of society. Maximizing Minebea’s Strengths Since the establishment of TRDC, we have taken various initiatives to bolster our foundation. We are helping to solve the technological challenges of sales divisions and other departments, and we have identified the technological strengths of each business unit and individual engineers in those business units. Moving forward, we plan to forge closer communications with these organizations and consolidate the strengths of the Minebea Group. By maximizing our strengths, we can not only provide products required by our customers, but also develop a proposal-based business in which we think from the perspective of the end-user. What kinds of products should be created in order to provide security, safety, and fulfillment to society? Based on this perspective, we need to create more opportunities for our engineers to talk directly to the technical experts at our customer companies. Through these activities, the Minebea Group’s superior products and technologies can serve as a kind of lubricant between not just our customers and us, but also between society and us. In creating products required by society, we can also contribute to the Mr. Akira Ikawa, Chief, Tokyo Research and Development Center revitalization of Japan’s manufacturing industry. 5 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Implementing the CSR Procurement Survey In FY2013, Minebea created and distributed the Minebea Group CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist in order to confirm the status of CSR activities at its suppliers. Here, we discuss the results of the survey with Mr. Mamoru Iwatani, general manager of the Procurement Department, which led the initiative. Commitment from Q. Please explain the background the President to the checklist. A. As the scope of corporate social responsibility expands, problems in the supply chain represent business risks for a company and could impact its brand value. In March 2012, we introduced the Minebea Group Hot Topics CSR Procurement Guidelines and held dialogues with our suppliers to promote their understanding and cooperation. To determine the level of implementation of the guidelines and the current status among our sincere about CSR and are following our guidelines. suppliers, we created CSR Procurement SelfMinebea Products There were some areas of overall CSR promotion that assessment Checklist and asked our suppliers to require improvement, such as the establishment of respond. in Society specialized CSR organizations. We will consider supplier size and other business environment issues Q. What kind of survey was conducted? while making visits to suppliers and sharing best practices in order to improve the level of CSR activities. A. The checklist included 54 questions in 5 areas Special Feature defined by our guidelines: Overall CSR Promotion; How do you plan to advance Labor; Health and Safety; Environmental Conservation; Q. the initiative in the future? and Ethical Management. In the first stage, we distributed the checklist to 250 suppliers in Japan, A. A In this stage of the initiative, we surveyed only domestic suppliers. As a company conducting global representing about 66% of our total annual procurement, business activities, however, the Minebea Group also and asked them to confirm the status of their CSR and needs to strengthen CSR procurement overseas. We Management Report respond to our survey. therefore plan to conduct a similar survey among suppliers in Thailand and China, the Group’s main Q. What did you learn from the results? manufacturing bases, by the end of FY2015. We also plan to bolster our training in and outside Japan so that A. The results showed that more than 80% of our Procurement Department employees can sufficiently suppliers scored at least 450 points out of 500 points in confirm CSR issues when visiting suppliers. total. This means that in general, our suppliers are ■Compiled Checklist Results (average for each item) Social Report Overall CSR promotion 80.62 Environmental Report 100 00 Ethical 80 8 L Labor managementnt 6 600 9 99.03 40 96.41 20 0 0 Mr. Mamoru Iwatani Interviewer: mental Environmental Healt Health General Manager, Mr. Takehiko Mizukami Procurement Department, Cre-en Inc. conservation and safety Procurement and Logistics Division 98.45 95.79 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 6 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Minebea Products in Society The ball bearings, motors, and electronic devices that we manufacture are incorporated in a wide range of final products, improving the lives of people around the world, and helping to bring about a richer society. Although our products are not normally visible to consumers, Telecommunication this page will introduce the role they play in society. base stations Service robots Hydrofoil boats CT scanners Automobiles Crossing gates Trains Vacuum cleaners Audio-visual equipment Dental handpieces Bathroom scales Power tools Game devices/DVD & Blu-ray players Televisions M Machined Components Electronic EElectronicDevices devices and Components components ●Products ● Products Ball bearings, rod end & spherical Hard disc drive spindle motors, small bearings, roller bearings, fasteners, precision motors, stepping motors, pivot assemblies, precision machined brushless motors, fan motors components ● Product applications ●Product applications Personal computers, hard disc Personal computers, hard disc drives, drives, information and information and telecommunications telecommunications equipment, OA equipment, OA equipment, consumer equipment, consumer electronics, electronics, audio-visual equipment, audio-visual equipment, mobile ATMs, automobiles, aircraft phone communication base stations, industrial machinery, automobiles 7 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Space rockets Aircraft Lighting equipment Commitment from the President Multi-function copier-printers Industrial machinery Hot Topics Air-conditioners PCs Minebea Products in Society Special Feature Portable music players Digital cameras Mobile phones Fishing equipment Management Report ATMs Social Report ● ● Environmental Report Products Products Lighting devices for liquid crystal Special components displays, measuring components, heat management system modules ● Product applications (HMSM), next-generation Industrial machinery, defense input devices, LED drivers equipment, automobiles ● Product applications Personal computers, digital cameras, mobile phones, smartphones, portable music players, projectors, measuring equipment, automobiles, space rockets, lighting equipment Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 8 Special Feature 1 Manufacturing Spirit Deeply Rooted in Minebea Serving Society through Manufacturing Business processes Development Manufacturing Since its founding, Minebea has endeavored to respond to the needs of society and create Materials stable supplies of ever-improving products at competitive prices. This philosophy underpins Sales procurement our dedication to manufacturing and is shared throughout all the product creation processes, from development and materials procurement to manufacturing and sales. Each and every employee in our company carries on this philosophy. Our success at globalizing our business and having our products accepted throughout the world is a testament to the sincerity in our manufacturing. The philosophy is also reflected in our Basic CSR Policy and passed down from managers to subordinates and veteran to junior employees. Here, we introduce employees supporting our manufacturing by demonstrating single-minded dedication to their mission in their daily work. Development Wide contributions to society y through product development pme t anticipating future needs ds A Determination to Succeed: development work, so I often overlook the fact that there Never Give Up and Never Compromise are many different development vantage points depending on the type of work each of us is doing, for example the As members of the Product Technology Department of molding of light guide plates and mold design,” Ms. the Lighting Device Business Unit, Mr. Shinji Kawai and Azumi says in reflection of her work. “Other times, I Ms. Keito Azumi are involved in the development of realize that I didn’t properly communicate backlights used in smartphones and tablet devices. In something because of an unclear explanation, recent years, the development of thinner and brighter and I end up causing unnecessary work in the end.” light guide plates has become a critical requirement. Mr. Kawai has high expectations for Ms. Customer requirements rise every year, with some Azumi. “Once we build some experience, we customers requesting such sophisticated requirements learn to anticipate what other people are as a 20% reduction in thinness and 10% increase in thinking and what information they need brightness, and to eliminate uneven brightness when under certain circumstances. It’s hard to users view the screen, a challenging requirement which make progress on a project independently, cannot be clearly quantified. but I expect you to mature into a When dealing with these types of requirements, Mr. developer who can think and act for Kawai holds firm to a fundamental development yourself, instead of just an operator in Mr. Shinji Kawai philosophy of never giving up. “A host of difficulties a process,” Mr. Kawai adds. (entered company in 1994) Manager, Development Section always emerge when we try to apply current Product Technology Department Lighting Device Business Unit technology to plan the mass production of a ■General backlight structure new product in several years’ time. We never LCD panel say we can’t do it, and we never compromise the customer’s requirements,” he says with the spirit of a veteran. Optical film Light guide plate While following the example set by LED Mr. Kawai, Ms. Azumi strives to Resin frame improve her own work by eliminating Light guide plate communication errors often occurring This specialized plate diffuses light entering from the side of the plate to with development colleagues. “A lot create a uniform brightness on the Ms. Keito Azumi surface. Since the light does not enter (entered company in 2011) of people are involved in our from the rear of the plate, the plate is Development Section ideal for thin LED panels featuring (Detailed view of Product Technology Department Lighting Device Business Unit minimal disparity in brightness. light guide plate) 9 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Aiming for High Quality Customers device manufacturers and product users,” notes Mr. Can Trust Kawai. “It’s very motivating to know that I’ve helped to develop a product that is playing a useful role in society,” Commitment from The backlight products developed by Mr. Kawai and Ms. adds Ms. Azumi. “I’d like to see Minebea as a company Azumi are not visible to users of the end-products, but that continually manufactures products reflecting the President they are critical to giving users a beautiful LCD next-generation needs, and which is relied upon by experience. Additionally, by developing increasingly thin customers to create products of the highest quality and backlights, they are supporting the creation of smaller, functionality.” more energy-efficient products with reduced burden on This desire among product developers to provide the environment. “Our direct customers are the LCD affluence and convenience to society through the Hot Topics panel manufacturers, but our real goal should be to creation of great products is a spirit passed down from manufacture high-quality products that satisfy the past generations of Minebea employees. Materials procurement Minebea Products Supporting S ti responsible t i l procu ibl materials men procurement in Society by linking the company internally and ex externally Thorough Compliance to Protect Trust provide their advice on internal controls and the foreign Special Feature in the Company trade laws. “There are still many cases where I can’t make my own decision and need the help of my The Procurement and Logistics Division is responsible supervisors and colleagues,” notes Ms. Suzuki. “I’m just for procuring necessary materials and delivering them getting to the point where I can propose my own solution to manufacturing sites. The division’s Purchase based on my accumulated skill and experience before Department, Administration Section is responsible for seeking the help of my superiors,” Ms. Suzuki adds with ensuring that the procurement and logistics functions Management Report a forward-looking attitude. Mr. are carried out in compliance with laws and regulations. Miyatake is quick to praise her Ms. Tomomi Suzuki is in charge of confirming that approach. “First, it’s important goods shipments to overseas sites comply with Japan’s for you to find your own Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act*. “In my work, solutions. Then, you can it’s critical to be accurate and cautious in handling actively take advantage of shipments,” notes Ms. Suzuki. “But I also feel a lot of discussions with your pressure because I don’t want a delay in my decision to colleagues on issues.” Social Report have a negative impact on overseas plants.” Her manager, Mr. Kyuichiro Miyatake, understands her problem. “We have to clearly understand Ms. Tomomi Suzuki (entered company in 2008) the situation at plants, which need us to Administration Section, Purchase Department rapidly send shipments. But at the Procurement and Logistics Division same time, we must comply with all Environmental Report laws, and we can’t allow ourselves Leveraging Specialized Know-how to to make an incorrect decision Coordinate Projects because we are hurried.” With laws being revised frequently, Ms. Suzuki realizes Ms. Suzuki and her colleagues that there is no limit to the subjects she could study to are frequently asked by people stay abreast of change. It’s possible that a change to the in and outside the company to foreign trade laws could make it impossible to ship Mr. Kyuichiro Miyatake (entered company in 1981) certain materials to another country without government Manager, Administration Section, Purchase Department Procurement and Logistics Division * A law controlling the movement of funds, products, and services between Japan and foreign countries, as well as foreign exchange. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 10 Special Feature 1 Manufacturing Spirit Deeply Rooted in Minebea permission, which would significantly obstruct the green procurement,” adds Ms. Suzuki, who shares procurement process. The role of materials management responsibility for executing the department’s important is to coordinate with both suppliers and manufacturing responsibility. “I’d like to build knowledge from my departments to find solutions to these types of issues. various experiences to become a true professional and “Ideally, our department acts not only as a purchaser the kind of colleague people feel confident in and supplier of goods, but as a coordinator which can consulting,” she adds in discussing her professional use its expertise to solve problems when they occur in goals. Minebea’s manufacturing operations cannot the purchasing and supply processes,” notes Mr. Miyatake. succeed unless materials reach the manufacturing sites “We are strengthening our coordination with our properly. In this sense, the Procurement and Logistics suppliers to respond to the recent societal demand for Division underpins Minebea’s manufacturing foundation. Manufacturing Realizing the highest-quality products through even higher gher efficiency just trying new solutions without fear of Intuition Backed by Long Experience failure.” Mr. Ishida smiles wryly. “Even if a decision ends in failure, if we act Mr. Tsuyoshi Ishida and Mr. Toshiaki Isomura are part of quickly enough we have the time to go the Production Engineering Section, a core part of back and fix it again. Most of all, I’ve Minebea’s manufacturing operations. The section builds found that our initial instincts production lines, supplies mass production equipment often hit the mark. We rely on and molds to manufacturing sites, and develops new intuition based on long methods to rationalize the manufacturing processes. experience. It’s important for “When we design production lines for new product us to value that intuition.” models, we collaborate with the engineering Mr. Tsuyoshi Ishida departments and quality management departments to (entered company in 1981*) build processes from scratch,” says Mr. Isomura. “Then, Brushless Motor Business Unit * Panasonic Corporation (at the time) Manufacturing Headquarters, Transferred to Minebea Co., Ltd. in 2010 with the we monitor manufacturing sites after mass production Production Engineering Section transfer of the Brushless Motor Business Unit starts and make improvements based on feedback from the sites. There are a lot things to worry about, but Improving Manufacturing with there’s also a lot of enjoyment in the process of resolving problems.” Unconventional Thinking Unforeseen problems often occur, posing Mr. Ishida has high hopes that Mr. Isomura and other challenges to meeting severe quality and young employees will reassess the importance of delivery deadlines. Mr. Isomura admires process technology, which has traditionally been one of the speed with which Mr. Ishida, his Minebea’s strengths. “The manufacturing industry boss and the manager of the depends on the ability to process materials. It’s up to our Production Engineering Section, young employees to discover, from among all the diverse makes decisions when confronting processes, new methods with superior efficiency, problems. “I have a tendency to instead of just following the conventional methods. To do brood over problems to the point this, young employees have to continually challenge where I can’t act,” says Mr. themselves by asking, ‘Can’t we try this?’” Mr. Isomura Isomura. “With their long listens with interest. “I’m often surprised at Mr. Ishida’s Mr. Toshiaki Isomura (entered company in 1999*) experience, my superiors take advice because he suggests new ways of looking at Brushless Motor Business Unit a very practical approach of things. I’d like to think more carefully about his advice on Manufacturing Headquarters, Production Engineering Section 11 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 a personal level and develop my own ideas.” requirement. Our job is to maximize manufacturing Mr. Ishida communicates the important role of the performance by finding ways to lower costs. Combining Production Engineering Section in the manufacturing our expert process technology with unconventional Commitment from process to the future generations. “For us, thinking enables us to supply customers with low-price, manufacturing products with high quality is a basic high-quality products.” the President Sales Staying close to customers to accurately respond to their ir needs Hot Topics Grasping Customer Needs and difficult at first because we can’t rely on common sense Coordinating with Internal Organizations to guide us, but that will make the experience even more Minebea Products valuable. Wherever we do business, we must respect Sales organizations play a critical role in resolving the local culture with humility.” in Society customers’ product development issues by showing them how Minebea products can support their goals. Assigned to Automotive Device Sales, Mr. Kota Iizuka works Enhancing Manufacturing through Sales closely with automobile manufacturers. “Development projects for automakers can last three to five years, and Thinking beyond just price and performance, Mr. Iizuka Special Feature that length of time makes it critical to build trusted focuses on what he can do to convince customers to relations with customers,” he notes. choose Minebea products. “When working with product Mr. Kaoru Fujinaka, manager of the Precision Motor manufacturers, the most basic Business Unit, coordinates projects between the sales, requirements are to meet their development and manufacturing departments. Mr. specifications and provide consistent Fujinaka shares product information and frequently quality,” he notes. “In sales, it’s Management Report collaborates with Mr. Iizuka and his department, which very important for us to sells precision motors as a mainstay product. Mr. strengthen our customer Fujinaka leverages his past experience in overseas relationships by going sales. “In sales, we sometimes receive very challenging beyond this standard. We product specification and performance requests. In must become very sensitive those cases, we don’t just pass the requests to the to customer attitudes in development departments, but rather build an our daily work and pay understanding of the customer’s product meticulous attention Mr. Kaoru Fujinaka Social Report development strategy and the background to (entered company in 1988) to their needs.” Mr. Manager, Sales Headquarters, their needs. Using this comprehensive Fujinaka strongly agrees. Precision Motor Business Unit understanding, we need to communicate the “It’s very important for us to actively communicate the requests internally and smoothly execute latent needs we’ve grasped through customer meetings projects.” to our development department with the hope that we Mr. Fujinaka supports Mr. Iizuka’s can realize them. As perfectionists, developers are often Environmental Report desire to become involved with cautious about creating entirely new products, but we overseas sales. “That’s an important can work with them to determine what we can do now challenge. The sales methods based on the market trends. In this way, the sales overseas are different, based departments are using the customers’ voices to on local culture and social advance Minebea’s manufacturing,” says Mr. Fujinaka, customs. It might seem explaining how sales should best link the market needs Mr. Kota Iizuka (entered company in 2011) with development and manufacturing. Automotive Device Sales, West Japan Sales Unit * Positions/assignments current as of time of interview (December 2013) Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 12 Special Feature 2 Cambodian Business Grows with Its Employees The Minebea Group has successfully expanded its business Thailand in many countries throughout the world. Cambodia is the Group’s newest manufacturing base. Here, we introduce the Cambodia initiatives we are taking to raise and develop both our employees and our manufacturing activities. Minebea’s Global Strategy Issues Facing in Cambodia the Cambodian Plant In April 2011, as one of the commemorative business Although the Cambodian business has begun to get on initiatives to celebrate Minebea’s 60th anniversary, we track, it still faces a number of major challenges. A key launched manufacturing operations in Cambodia. At the issue is the inadequate knowledge and skills of the local time, our main manufacturing sites in Thailand and workforce. As a result of Cambodia’s long civil war in the China presented exchange rate risks, a shortage of second half of the 20th century, there are few people labor, rising wages and other issues. Cambodia aged over 30 with significant work experience. emerged as a new base which could help to solve these Furthermore, many young Cambodians leave school issues. The country’s advantages included proximity to early to help with family businesses and fail to complete our largest manufacturing base, Thailand, as well as a their mandatory educations. Raising the level of basic stable political climate. The new plant in Cambodia was academic skills remains a pressing issue for the country. positioned as the primary assembly site, which requires Another issue is the mindset of workers. About 90% of a large labor force. This enabled plants in Thailand and the population is involved in agriculture, making the neighboring countries to accelerate value-added work environment different from a country like Japan, manufacturing. Overall, the launch of manufacturing in where people are accustomed to being employed by a Cambodia promised to establish a more efficient company. In Cambodia, people still wear their shoes manufacturing structure in Asia. indoors and it’s common for garbage to be thrown in the In December 2011, we opened our first plant in the street. Additionally, young people dislike living away Phnom Penh Special Economic Zone (PPSEZ), a 400m from their parents. These and other customs are x 70m facility with a floor space of 28,000 m2. By March obstructing the education of workers. Overcoming this 2014, the plant’s workforce had risen to about 4,000 mindset and fostering employee skills and motivation for employees, making our plant one of the largest in the work will be indispensable for future business success. PPSEZ just three years after opening. The plant’s manufacturing lines assemble small motors and Responding to Employee smartphone backlights around the clock. We plan to Expectations expand the scope of the plant’s operations in the future Based on our long experience expanding in overseas to meet rising global demand. markets, we understand that growing hand-in-hand with our employees is necessary to solving these issues. As our newest manufacturing base, Cambodia is no exception to this approach. New employees hired at the Cambodia plant enjoy extensive training. We not only teach them technical skills, but patiently nurture the mindset they will need to succeed as company employees. Groundbreaking ceremony for Cambodian plant 13 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Sunday school Commitment from Employee dormitory the President Hot Topics It’s also important to respond to employees’ Aiming beyond a Motivated Workforce expectations of the company. This ensures that employee motivation remains high and helps to foster As part of the “Five Principles,” our basic management Minebea Products company loyalty. We actively create opportunities for philosophy, we believe that the company should communication with employees, listen thoroughly to become a place where its employees are proud to work their problems and concerns, and implement various and the company should respond to employee measures to address these problems. motivation. The sharing of passion with employees in Society As one measure, we offer employees schooling. Many makes it possible to supply products desired by society employees who have not graduated from school have a and to realize our goal of “manufacturing with sincerity.” strong desire to continue their education, and in The growth achieved through this philosophy Special Feature response we started this initiative. To advance this generates contributions for local regions and initiative, we also started offering Cambodian, math, and communities. We apply this philosophy in every region English lessons on Sundays. Even though participation in which we do business, including Cambodia. As we is voluntary, the classes are filled each week and some expand our business in Cambodia, we will seek not only employees even attend after working a night shift. to generate more jobs, but to help solve local social We are also striving to improve the quality of life for issues and be welcomed by local communities in order Management Report our employees by offering comprehensive facilities, to grow with the communities. such as dormitories and employee cafeterias. A new dormitory is under construction to further improve the quality of life. In these and other ways, we are taking meticulous measures to not only raise employee skills, but to foster a workforce with high motivation and loyalty to Minebea. Social Report Taking part in Sunday School Appreciation for Company Programs I’m really enjoying the Sunday school because it helps The students are putting their hearts into learning at me to improve my English and math skills, which I need the school. I’m creating the curriculum with Minebea to make calculations and communicate in my job. I and arranging the lessons to meet varying levels usually work the night shift, but I among the students. I can see a Environmental Report discussed the classes with my clear improvement since we line supervisor so that I could began the classes. The creation take part. I’m very pleased and of not only jobs but also fortunate to have an opportunity educational opportunities is to gain these skills while very important to the future of working. I plan to continue both the employees and studying hard so that I can work Cambodian society as a whole. in administrative and other Ms. Pen Sokniv We’re very grateful to Minebea. Mr. Phoung Makara (Instructor) positions in the future. Lighting Device Business Unit Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 14 Special Feature 3 Being Welcomed by Local Communities—Initiatives in Thailand— NMB-Minebea Thai (Minebea Thai) began manufacturing activities in 1982. Today, the company’s plants manufacture about 50% of the Group’s total output, serving as its largest manufacturing base. The growth of the Thai business requires the understanding and cooperation of local residents. Minebea operates on the basis of “Five Principles,” and as part of that philosophy, we strive to be welcomed by local communities. Here, we introduce various activities we are taking in Thailand to deepen our relationships and grow with local communities. Nurturing Children in the Community Supporting schools is one of our main community activities at Minebea Thai. We are donating school materials and holding events for schools around our plants in order to raise the level of education and build relations. At the Wad Thang Klang School, a school in Ayutthaya Province we support, we are taking initiatives An English class to increase educational opportunities, particularly for impoverished families. In the past, we have provided children by stimulating their auditory and visual senses. support for the building of the school’s library and other “English lessons are a lot more enjoyable now,” says projects, and in January 2014, we also donated one of the students, shining a bright smile. The students audio-visual equipment and 40 headsets to enable to talk about their dreams of using English to communicate learn English through AV materials. These donations with people from many countries. Minebea Thai has also will help build a more effective learning environment for donated cooking equipment and materials to the school, and the company’s employees provide confectionery classes for the students. Children and local residents who have learned to make cakes can sell their sweets at school events and generate funds to support the school as well as enhance their own lifestyles. “Wad Thang Klang School teachers are very passionate about these support programs and actively engage in teamwork,” comments an employee of Minebea Thai. “We want to create a model for school Confectionery classes led by employees Wad Thang Klang School support and promote the model at other schools as well.” English Education Improved for Many Children Appreciation for Extensive Cooperation English skills can make a child’s future brighter. In Thailand, Minebea Thai has provided a great amount of support for our however, there is a shortage of English teachers. The school, not only with the donation of this English learning donations of equipment and materials equipment and the confectionery are therefore an important opportunity classes, but also through plant for our students. We share the tours and support after the flooding. Many of our students cannot leave equipment with local residents their communities because of around the school to ensure that circumstances at home, and that’s many children can improve their why these exchanges with people English skills. All of the teachers are such important learning are very appreciative of Minebea opportunities. We are very grateful Thai’s support. Wad Thang Klang School for the support we’ve received. Wad Thang Klang School Ms. Amphaporn Cherdchai (English teacher) Mr. Thongchai Poon-U-Dorn (principal) 15 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Striving to Enrich Pakong River, Chachoengsao Province to the east of the Environment Bangkok. With its name meaning “bird island” in Thai, the park is home to the stork and many other species Commitment from The conservation of natural environments around our and plays an important role in supporting the Thai plants is another critical initiative. Consideration for surrounding ecosystem. To conserve the park’s the President the environment when executing our manufacturing environment, Minebea Thai employees volunteered to activities is fundamental to our business. In addition, we plant 400 mangroves in December 2013. The also take active measures to improve the natural employees are monitoring the mangroves’ growth in environment around our plants. cooperation with the park rangers. In March 2014, One area in which we are particularly active is Minebea Thai donated 50 pairs of boots for forestry work mangrove reforestation. We have carried out to the park management organization and employees Hot Topics reforestation projects in Koh Nok Park, along the Bang release crabs into the park to help preserve biodiversity. Minebea Products in Society Special Feature Environmental conservation activities in Koh Nok park A reforested mangrove A crab released into the park Growing with Local a project to transfer technology to women in the Communities community and raise the quality of life through higher incomes. Since many of the local residents were Management Report Minebea Thai is taking measures to raise the quality of struggling to maintain hygienic environments, we life for local citizens and deepen its connections with collaborated with a local university to show local them. In communities surrounding the Lop Buri Plant, residents an effective way to make detergents. We the incomes of women, who manage the household provide women with the materials and they sell the budget, has been inadequate. In FY2011, we launched finished product, generating a side-income of about 3,000 baht a month per person. Minebea Thai has also bought much of the detergent produced. We are now considering ways to support women in Social Report selling the detergent to general consumers as a way to expand the initiative. I'm Happy to be Taking Part in the Project I’m very pleased that Minebea Thai has provided us with so much support. We have been using Environmental Report the detergents ourselves, and the extra income has enabled me to spend more on my children. This project has also helped to develop a strong sense of unity in the community. It’s truly a great project. A leader of residents taking part in the project Ms. Wong Chan Khunabutr Participating resident activities Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 16 Management Report CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results Results for FY2013 and Goals for FY2014 and the Medium Term FY2013 Goals FY2013 Results Review status of CSR activities at overseas sites CSR Confirmed the status of and reviewed CSR activities in the United States, Thailand, and Cambodia In Japan, analyzed the status of CSR activities and identified issues based Review status of activities based on ISO 26000 CSR on ISO 26000 CSR Management Promote internal CSR awareness initiatives, including at Established a global CSR promotion structure by appointing CSR Officers overseas sites CSR at sites in and outside Japan Management Strengthen compliance activities at Japanese and overseas Distributed compliance cards and conducted a compliance awareness sites Compliance survey of Japanese employees working in and outside Japan Corporate Governance Promote overseas training and awareness activities ▪ Provided compliance training to Japanese employees on assignment at Compliance to prepare for establishment of global compliance sales sites in China and Hong Kong system Compliance ▪ Provided compliance training to local employees at Korean sales sites Risk Management ▪ Conducted three BCP training sessions at Karuizawa Plant using earthquake scenarios Promote BCM at Japanese and overseas sites GA ▪ At Thai plants, conducted flood wall deployment training based on BCP plans for flooding Create framework to compile results on risk assessments Created a framework (proposal) to compile risk assessment results on of major products Quality automotive, aircraft, and medical products Relationships Create framework to clarify product safety laws, Established a safety standards conference to clarify laws, regulations, regulations, internal rules, and compliance for major with Customers products Quality internal rules and their compliance Unify manufacturing label and bar code systems for all Unified manufacturing labels and bar codes for domestic production products Logistics Continue to strengthen human rights education Provided anti-harassment training as part of rank-based training as well Human Resources Development as human rights training prior to overseas assignment ▪ Started management training program prior to overseas assignment Strengthen development and utilization of personnel suited Relationships Society ▪ Provided English-learning opportunities for all young employees for global development Human Resources Development with Employees ▪ Continued overseas study program and overseas hiring activities Continue to promote initiatives relating to work-life balance Personnel Primarily promoted measures to prevent excessive overtime Meet legally required employment percentages for the handicapped and support their employment Personnel Rate of employees with disabilities was 1.69% (as of June 2013) Relationships with Review engagement with local communities and status of Organized information on status of community dialogues and social Local Communities and Global Society social contribution activities at all global sites CSR contribution programs at overseas sites Send CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist to Relationships Distributed CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist to 250 domestic major domestic suppliers and collect responses with Suppliers suppliers, received responses, and analyzed status Procurement Continue to promote active information disclosure relating Promoted information disclosure on Medium-term Business Plan and policies through general shareholders’ meeting, semiannual business Relationships to progress and implementation of business plan IR report, and website information with Shareholders Continue to promote active communication with domestic Held four briefings on financial results and conference calls for institutional investors and securities analysts and one tour to visit investors in the U.S., and international investors IR Europe, and Asia Prepare for acquisition of ISO 14001 certification for Began activities to acquire ISO 14001 certification for Tokyo Head Office, including establishment of structure, formulation of plans, purposes, Minebea Tokyo Head Office Environment and goals Reduce CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 3% CO2 emissions rose by 2,685 tons compared with FY2010, a decline of compared with FY2010 Environment 28% per basic unit of output Limit volume of waste ultimately disposed of as landfill by Amount of waste ultimately disposed of as landfill by Minebea Group Minebea Group worldwide to 4,300 tons per year worldwide totaled 4,564 tons/year, a decline of 19.9% per basic unit Environment of output Environment Prepare for Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Began preparations by taking part in CDP reporting meeting and other Environment measures Study selection criteria for Minebea Green Products based Promoted development of environmentally conscious products, including on consideration of product group characteristics “Smart Building” plans for the Tokyo Head Office building, “Five Arrows” Environment strategy (lighting equipment, measuring devices) and other measures Expand use of efficient packaging to all models of hybrid stepping motors, PM stepping motors, and power brushless Used efficient packaging for some models of hybrid stepping motors, motors, as well as to fan motors and other products PM stepping motors, and power brushless motors Logistics 17 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results in a planned fashion, the Group has established medium-term goals to be achieved by FY2015. The Minebea Group believes it is important to manage CSR activities appropriately using the Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle and sets CSR goals accordingly. Furthermore, to ensure that CSR activities are promoted Evaluation FY2014 Goals Medium-term Goals (target year of FY2015) Commitment from ○ ▪ Establish reporting structure for entire Group, including overseas sites, ▪ Promote CSR management across the Group, including overseas sites CSR ○ centered around CSR Officers CSR ▪ Enhance PDCA management to meet global standards CSR the President ▪ Identify CSR issues at overseas sites using ISO 26000 to analyze status CSR ▪ Promote CSR awareness activities across the Group, including overseas ○ ▪ Conduct CSR enlightenment and discussions with domestic CSR officers CSR sites CSR ▪ Share status of compliance activities among overseas sites and formulate future ○ direction of compliance measures Compliance ▪ Promote education and awareness activities overseas to prepare for ▪ Establish a global compliance system Compliance ○ establishment of global compliance structure Compliance ▪ Formulate a BCP for the entire Minebea Group and instill it through training GA Hot Topics ▪ Promote formulation of basic BCP for Cambodia, China (Zhuhai) plants GA ▪ Formulate BCP for Tokyo Head Office GA ○ ▪ Promote BCP drills at all sites GA ▪ Create internal risk assessment standards for automotive, aircraft, and medical ○ products Quality ▪ For automotive products, begin compiling data on risk assessment results in ▪ Create product safety assessment structure for product life cycle accordance with procedures Quality stages Quality ○ Minebea Products ▪ Establish a framework to continually comply with product safety laws, ▪ Promote bar-coding for all products Logistics regulations, internal rules for major products Quality ▪ Acquire AEO certification in South Korea, Malaysia Logistics ▪ Unify manufacturing labels and bar codes for PM motors, hybrid motors, fan motors, micro actuators Logistics in Society ○ ▪ Acquire AEO certification in Germany Logistics ▪ Continue to strengthen human rights education Human Resources Development ○ ▪ Strengthen development and utilization of personnel suited for global development ▪ Strengthen the development of human resources in order to support the (next-generation leader training, strategic rotation implementation) Human Resources Development active expansion and development of global business ○ ▪ Enhance activities of female employees Human Resources Development Human Resources Development Special Feature ▪ Continue to promote initiatives relating to work-life balance Personnel ▪ Proactively incorporate demands of society and promote measures to ▪ Meet legally required employment percentages for the handicapped and support support employee motivation Personnel ○ for their employment Personnel × ▪ Promote mental health support measures Personnel Hold dialogues with communities through sites in and outside Japan to ○ Promote engagement between sites and local communities in and outside Japan expand social contribution activities based on understanding of their CSR needs CSR ▪ Distribute CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist to 300 Thai suppliers, Promote CSR procurement using the results of the CSR Procurement collect and analyze results Procurement ○ Self-assessment Checklist completed by major suppliers in and outside Management Report ▪ Distribute Minebea Group Green Procurement Standard, 5th edition for suppliers in and outside Japan Procurement Japan Procurement ▪ Continue to promote active information disclosure relating to progress and ○ Continue to actively disclose information and promote communication implementation of business plan IR among a wider group of shareholders and investors to deepen their ▪ Continue to promote active communication with domestic and international ○ investors IR understanding of Minebea IR ○ ▪ Acquire ISO 14001 certification for Minebea Tokyo Head Office Environment Social Report ○ ▪ Reduce CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 4% compared with FY2010 Environment ▪ Reduce CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 5% compared with △ ▪ Reduce amount of waste ultimately disposed of as landfill by Minebea Group FY2010 Environment worldwide to under 4,850 tons/year, for a decline of 1.3% per basic unit of ▪ Greatly reduce landfill waste Environment output Environment ▪ Expand improvements to packaging Logistics ○ ▪ Send response to CDP Environment ▪ Launch full-scale operations of Thai warehouse ▪ Expand use of efficient packaging to all models of hybrid stepping motors, Environmental Report (Minebea Thai Logistics Center (MTLC) Logistics ー PM stepping motors, and power brushless motors, as well as to fan motors and other products Logistics ▪ Open new warehouse in Thailand to improve logistics efficiency Logistics △ CSR CSR Promotion Office Compliance Compliance Office GA General Affairs Department Quality Group Quality Management Department Logistics Logistics Department Human Resources Development Human Resources Development Department Personnel Personnel Department Procurement Procurement Department IR Investors Relations Office Environment Group Environment Management Department Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 18 Management Report Minebea Group CSR Basic Approach Minebea Group Stakeholders The Minebea Group believes that enterprises have a Our major stakeholders are defined as employees, mission to contribute to the sustainable development of customers, shareholders, local communities, and global the global environment and of humanity, not only society, which are affirmed in the “Five Principles,” as through strict adherence to laws and regulations, but well as suppliers and the environment that supports our also through fair and proper management of our society. In carrying out CSR activities, the Group business in accordance with business ethics. To believes that it is essential to maintain communication achieve this mission, we have established the “Five with each stakeholder group and meet their expectations. Principles” as our basic management policy, and on the basis of this policy, formulated the Minebea Group Basic CSR Policy and the Minebea Group’s CSR Implementation Principles to guide our CSR activities. We also stress the importance and strive to fulfill the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, to which we announced our participation in 2012. The Five Principles Minebea Group Basic CSR Policy Be a company where our employees are proud to work As a manufacturer of precision Earn and preserve the trust of our valued customers products supporting society, the Minebea Group is working toward Respond to our shareholders’ expectations stable supply and making reliable products with low energy consumption Work in harmony with the local community widely available, to contribute to the sustainable development of the global Promote and contribute to global society environment and of humanity. The Minebea Group’s CSR Implementation Principles 1 The Five Principles and our Code of Conduct 2 Continuous improvement and raising 3 Dialogue with stakeholders of awareness In promoting CSR activities, the Minebea We will put forth goals to be achieved, based Constructive dialogue with stakeholders Group will appropriately manage the on understanding the Minebea Group’s social (employees, customers, shareholders, local organization in accordance with the “Five responsibilities and the key problems that communities, global society, suppliers, and Principles,” and adhere to its Code of need to be addressed, and continue to the environment) allows us to meet expectaConduct. improve our CSR activities through implementions and respond to requests, and we will tation and continual review. We will also strive improve transparency and accountability in to raise awareness of CSR among all employour corporate activities. ees through CSR activities. Minebea Group Stakeholders Supporting the UN Global Compact Customers Shareholders Employees Local communities Suppliers and global society Environment 19 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 CSR Promotion Structure Using the standard, we analyzed the status of our Commitment from activities and level of importance for our company The Minebea Group established its CSR Promotion regarding detailed items under each theme, and identified issues requiring priority implementation. The the President Office in FY2010 in order to better promote CSR activities on the basis of the Minebea Group Basic CSR results of the analysis will be used as reference for Policy and the CSR Implementation Principles. future activities. In April 2014, in order to bolster the CSR promotion ● Analysis of Overseas Activities structure and encourage internal activities, the We are also analyzing the status of CSR activities at President and Chief Executive Officer was named the overseas sites in order to effectively implement CSR Hot Topics chief officer for CSR and the Managing Director and management for the entire Group in and outside Japan. Officer in charge of Finance & Compliance Promotion In FY2013, we surveyed CSR staff in the United Division was named his assistant. At each work site, we States, Thailand, and Cambodia to better understand appointed CSR officers (head officer) and sub-staff in the status of activities. charge of CSR to promote CSR awareness and monitor the status of activities. Internal CSR Diffusion Activities Minebea Products Going forward, we will further reinforce our CSR structure in order to promote activities across the Group. Since FY2012, we have been holding CSR study in Society meetings among working-level coordinators in each Analyzing the Status of CSR Activities division to discuss goals for our CSR promotion activities. ● Using ISO 26000 to Analyze CSR Status In FY2013, the study meeting members discussed the From January to February 2014, we collaborated with contents of ISO 26000, shared the results of the CSR CSR experts to analyze how we are currently promoting Special Feature analysis using ISO 26000, and discussed how each our CSR activities. division should respond to the results in terms of needed The analysis was based on the seven key themes activities. proposed by ISO 26000, an international standard for social responsibility: Organizational Governance; Human Rights; Labor Practices; the Environment; Fair Future Issues and Goals Operating Practices; Consumer Issues; Community As a global enterprise, the Minebea Group aims to Management Report Involvement and Development, as well as Social promote CSR based on ISO 26000 and other Responsibility Awareness and Integration into Entire international standards. We will continue to take Organization. measures to establish a Group-wide promotion framework, inclusive of overseas sites, and instill CSR activities throughout the Group. CSR Promotion Framework Chief CSR officer (President and Chief Executive Officer) Social Report Administrative office Assistant chief CSR officer (Managing Director and Officer in charge of (CSR Promotion Office) Finance & Compliance Promotion Division) Japan Overseas Environmental Report Tokyo Sales Karuizawa Hamamatsu Fujisawa Yonago Thailand China Singapore Cambodia Malaysia South United Europe Korea States CSR officers at each site (head officer) Sub-staff in charge of CSR at each site Head CSR officers are appointed to each site along with multiple sub-staff Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 20 Management Report Compliance Basic Approach availability of consultation offices. As a specific measure, we created and distributed compliance cards The Minebea Group believes that implementing to stimulate an awareness of compliance as well as to compliance is an essential part of promoting CSR. promote the “Five Principles” and the availability of the Accordingly, we have established the Minebea Group consultation offices. Code of Conduct and Minebea Group Officer and Employee Compliance Guidelines, and on the basis of Compliance Education these policies, we strive to achieve fair, appropriate and highly transparent management. The Minebea Group also provides training to deepen employees’ understanding of compliance. Compliance Please visit the Minebea Group website for detailed information training is provided along with rank-based training regarding the Minebea Group Code of Conduct and Minebea Group Officer and Employee Compliance Guidelines. programs. In FY2013, 112 employees received training. Based on the results of the compliance survey, we also http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/company/aboutus/ took steps to strengthen compliance measures by Conduct/declaration/index.html providing DVD-based training to 3,319 employees at all of our domestic sites. Outside Japan, in order to strengthen our training Compliance Promotion Structure systems, we provided compliance training to 48 Japanese employees on assignment at Chinese sales The President and Chief Executive Officer of the sites, along with 35 local employees in South Korea. Minebea Group has ultimate responsibility for compliance. He is supported directly by the Compliance Committee. Meeting twice a year, the committee Internal Reporting System ensures implementation of the Code of Conduct and makes decisions on emergency response measures in The Minebea Group provides internal and external the event of significant violations of the code. The consultation offices which employees can contact when Compliance Office acts as the administrative body for they are unsure of whether or not their own conduct or the Compliance Committee, creating various policies for decision violates the Minebea Group Code of Conduct, the promotion of compliance. From FY2012, we or when an employee discovers conduct that might be in appointed compliance officers for each site in order to violation of the code. We investigate the accuracy of all bolster the Group’s compliance management. reports to the centers and take appropriate action in response. Compliance Framework Chief Compliance Officer Representative Director, Future Compliance Promotion President and Chief Executive Officer Compliance Committee The Minebea Group believes that employee awareness Chairman (Officer in charge of Compliance) Committee members and knowledge of compliance should be deepened to establish a corporate culture in which each employee Administrative Office maintains an awareness of compliance in conducting 14 global sites Compliance Office • Compliance Officer business activities. In the future, we will spearhead our • Staff in charge of Compliance efforts to strengthen the compliance promotion structure • Sub-Staff in charge of Compliance of the entire Group, including overseas sites, by enhancing collaborative programs between countries. In Compliance Survey the future, in consideration of the results of the awareness survey, we will enhance our training We conducted a survey to confirm the level of programs and promote the availability of the compliance awareness and received responses from consultation offices while building better coordination 3,738 Japanese employees working in and outside of between compliance systems in each country in order to Japan. Based on the results, we identified the need to strengthen the entire Group compliance promotion strengthen compliance training and promote the structure, including overseas structures. 21 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Management Report Risk Management Basic Approach In FY2013, a total of 11,333 employees attended Commitment from information security briefings, including temporary Because our response to risk could profoundly affect the employees and subcontracted employees. Minebea Group’s business fundamentals, we believe ● Initiatives to Protect Personal Information the President that risk management is vital to the management of the Personal information retained by the Minebea Group is company. We established the Minebea Group Basic managed in accordance with our Personal Information Rules for Risk Management which define preventive Protection Policy. The purposes for which this measures we should have in place, our response in information is utilized have also been clearly defined, crisis situations, and the type of system the group and we strictly adhere to the parameters for scope of Hot Topics should put in place. information use. Risk Management System BCP Initiatives The President and Chief Executive Officer of the In the event of a major disaster, influenza outbreak, act Minebea Group has final responsibility for risk of terrorism or other emergency, we believe that our management, with major decisions regarding risk social responsibility includes confirming the safety of our management being made by the Risk Management employees and their families, as well as ensuring that, Minebea Products Committee. As a precautionary measure, Minebea as a manufacturer of products with world-leading market in Society attempts to predict and classify tangible risks in shares, we can continually supply our customers and advance, and remains vigilant against such risks. In the minimize the impact to our business. For that reason, we unlikely event of an emergency, the severity of the have begun formulating and implementing business situation is assigned a level of one to three, and after continuity plans (BCP) for major business sites in and consultation by the Risk Management Committee, outside Japan. Special Feature management headquarters and local countermeasures In FY2013, we conducted three BCP training drills at offices are established, to respond rapidly and the Karuizawa Plant using earthquake scenarios. effectively to the situation. Further, Minebea has Outside Japan, we conducted drills for deploying organized a system under which—depending on the floodwalls at our Thai plants, while in Cambodia and nature of the risk being managed—a supervisory China (Shanghai) Plant we held emergency drills. division may be appointed to handle a situation, for Management Report which it will draft and implement responses. Future Issues and Goals Information Security Going forward, we will formulate BCP for plants in ● Information Security Structure Cambodia, China and other work sites in and outside The Minebea Group believes that protecting information Japan to provide a BCP structure responsive to a variety assets is essential for building a relationship of trust. We of contingencies, while conducting drills to instill the have therefore established the Minebea and Minebea BCP into site operations. Social Report Group Basic Policy for Protection of Confidential Information (Information Security Basic Policy), which Explosion at Peterborough Plant we thoroughly implement. (United States) We have also established an Information Security On February 10, 2014, an explosion at our Peterborough Plant Committee headed by a managing executive officer, in the United States caused injuries to 22 people. The composed of Information Security Task Forces that cooperation of many people made it possible to gradually Environmental Report implement measures in each country. resume normal manufacturing activities from February 13. An investigation discovered the cause of the accident to be waste ● Information Security Training chemicals used in surface treatment. We improved substance To improve employee awareness of information handling procedures, conducted a comprehensive check of security, the Minebea Group conducts information hazardous materials, and provided further employee training to security training. Information security briefings are held ensure similar accidents do not reoccur. We will continue to improve our manufacturing sites as part of our corporate annually, and tutorials are conducted by the Information responsibility to provide stable product supplies to customers Security Task Force in addition to training for new and and protect the health and safety of our employees. experienced employees when they enter the company. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 22 Social Report Relationships with Customers In FY2013, we also launched the Safety Regulation Basic Approach Council to ensure compliance with electronics safety In accordance with the Minebea Group Quality Policy, regulations and share information on problems among the Minebea Group aims to fully satisfy customers in organizations. terms of quality, cost, supply capacity, and speed, ●Risk assessment working diligently to maintain and enhance its reputation Minebea is creating standard internal procedures to as the most reliable component manufacturer. clarify risks and expedite response measures involving As part of this effort, we place great emphasis on risk major products that are commonly handled by assessment at the product and process design stages, customers and could have a major impact on the enabling us to provide our customers with products of company in the event of a recall or other problem. In consistently high quality. FY2013, we formulated procedures for automotive products. We plan to continue creating procedures for Quality Management other major products. ● Quality Management Framework Quality Improvement Measures We have created a Quality Management Manual covering the entire Minebea Group as part of our ●Promoting Quality Management System Certification measures to ensure the safety of our products and The Minebea Group promotes the acquisition of services and prevent accidents. The chief quality certification for quality management systems (QMS) in management system officer is the President & CEO, each business unit. In FY2013, we acquired QMS (ISO who is supported by the Quality Management 9001) certification for the manufacturing and assembly Committee, an advisory body which assists in processes of the Cambodian plant’s lighting device and monitoring the performance of each manufacturing stepping motor divisions, as well as the development, headquarters. The Group Quality Management design and manufacturing processes of the NMB Electro Department acts as the administrative office for the Precision’s industrial fan motor operations. Quality Management Committee. The department Additionally, two Thai departments received decides key issues and targets for the Group in ISO/TS16949 certification, a quality management consideration of the management policies, proposes system for the automotive industry. collaborative solutions, reports issues to the Board of ●E-learning Directors and Senior Executive Officer Council, and The Minebea Group conducts e-learning training on the provides quality management support and guidance to premise that the enhancement of individual employee’s each business unit. quality management skills and improvement capabilities ▶▶Quality Management Framework Board of Directors Board of Auditors Senior Executive Office Council President & Chief Executive Officer Vice President Executive Officer Quality Management Committee Administrative office (Group Quality Management Department) Support Division, Divisions Machined Component Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters Manufacturing Headquarters Precision Motor, Industrial Electronic Device Division HDD Motor Division Information Motor Division Machinery& Special Device Division Global Motor Division Ball Bearing Business Unit Lighting Device Business Unit Spindle Motor Business Unit Stepping Motor Business Unit Precision Motor Business Unit Hansen Business Unit Rod End/Fastener Business Unit EMS Business Unit Brushless Motor Business Unit Industrial Machinery Business Unit EMT Business Unit Mechanical Assembly Business Unit Measuring Components Business Unit DC Motor Business Unit Special Device Business Unit Moatech Business Unit NHBB/myonic Business Unit Fan Motor Business Unit 23 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 leads to the improvement of the entire Group’s quality. As part of this initiative, we plan to launch the Disclosure of Product-related Information Commitment from Information Motor Division’s basic quality e-learning Most products from the Minebea Group are ultimately system on the Group Quality Management integrated into finished products that pass into the President Department’s intranet site now under construction to consumers’ hands. For this reason, we provide safety share the system throughout the Group. related information to our customers as requested. Also ●Quality Management Team in Thailand in response to customer requests, we provide In Thailand, the Minebea Group has organized a Quality information about chemical substances incorporated in Management Team (QMT) comprised of representatives our products, based on information obtained from Hot Topics from the local business units. The team strives towards suppliers. continual quality improvement by supporting the For keyboards and some other finished products, improvement of the quality systems and specific quality user manuals include safety-related information. problems of multiple divisions in Thailand. The team uses a 12-point checklist to identify issues Communication with Customers collaboratively with the local divisions. Minebea Products In FY2013, we newly launched the Minebea Problem ●Customer Satisfaction Surveys Solving (MPS) team to develop new methods for solving Within the Minebea Group, individual business units in Society problems. The team worked with local divisions to institute conduct their own customer satisfaction surveys. The a variety of measures aimed at raising yield rate and survey results are provided to the sales and customer satisfaction. The team also strove to acquire development departments of each business unit. If various certifications in order to expand its activities. customers should evaluate any criterion below a specific satisfaction level, we assess and implement Special Feature improvements across all divisions. Responding to Quality-related Issues In the event there is a major quality issue concerning Minebea Group products or services, we refer to our Management Report Members of quality improvement team Quality Management Rules and recall guidelines to take necessary measures in response. ● Acquiring AEO Certification In FY2013, we created an English version of detailed The Minebea Group is strengthening and improving rules on internal Group procedures for dealing with logistics management in order to perform trade and major quality issues and distributed the rules to all of logistics properly and efficiently. As part of this effort, we our sites. are working to acquire Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) certifications. We acquired German certification Future Issues and Goals Social Report in May 2014, and next plan to acquire certifications in South Korea and Malaysia. Moving forward, we plan to bolster efforts to improve ● Unified Manufacturing Labels and Bar Codes quality under the new promotion structure. Specifically, Among our logistics management activities, we are we plan to expand our framework to compile and unifying manufacturing labels and bar codes analyze the results of risk assessments conducted for throughout the Group to prevent mistaken product each of our major products, while strengthening the Environmental Report shipments and raise the productivity of verification structures to ensure compliance with safety standards. processes. In FY2013, we developed and introduced a For logistics operations, we are strengthening system to unify labels and barcodes for all domestically management by unifying the model manufacturing manufactured products except ball bearings, for which labels and barcodes for overseas manufactured a system was already in place. We will continue to products and promoting acquisition of system make preparations to expand this initiative to all of our certification. manufactured products. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 24 Social Report Relationships with Employees Basic Approach employees as possible with opportunities to work in the global arena. Since its founding, the Minebea Group has recognized Overseas training programs are conducted for both that employees are its most valuable resource, and one Japanese expatriates and locally hired employees. of our “Five Principles” is that the company should Training for Japanese employees is based on programs become a place where its employees are proud to work. offered in Japan, while local employees are trained The Minebea Group is committed to maintaining and through programs offered by each of our respective improving workplaces where each of our employees can subsidiaries. work safely and in good health, and fully exercise his or her abilities. Experiencing an Overseas Assignment After three years at the Karuizawa Minebea Group Workforce (people) (as of March 2014) Plant working in materials and Employees Japanese fault analysis, I was transferred staff on Total to Materials Science Laboratories overseas Male Female Total assignment in Thailand to support analysis work. I’d wanted to work overseas Japan 2,838 563 3,401 0 3,401 since entering the company, and North this is my second year in Thailand. America 1,197 820 2,017 25 2,042 When a problem occurs in the Tatsuya Takimoto Europe 819 412 1,231 23 1,254 mass production processes, it’s Technology Support Division, Materials Science Development Asia 10,730 36,930 47,660 411 48,071 important to prevent even Department problems which seem small from Materials Thailand Science Laboratories, Total 15,584 38,725 54,309 459 54,768 becoming major problems by identifying the cause and the potential impact. Unraveling these problems makes it possible to implement daily Employment at Domestic Group Companies (FY2013) improvement activities. I strive to maintain close communication Average length Retirement/ with everyone involved, proposing many different analysis of employment Average age Resignation Turnover rate methods and solutions. Since coming to Thailand, I’ve been 17 years, 42 years, 0 months 11 months 115 people 3.29% intimately involved in the mass production processes, and I feel responsible for making rapid and accurate judgments. Going forward, I’d like to help standardize work processes Overtime Work Data (averages of compiled data for September 2013 – March 2014) requiring knowledge and experience, sharing and collaborating Average number of overtime hours/month 6.3 hours/month with the local employees to perform analysis work. Average overtime wages/month 13,811 yen/month Fair and Balanced Evaluation Human Resources Development At the Minebea Group, impartiality and objectivity are our prime concerns in evaluating the abilities and The Minebea Group strives to develop human resources performance of our employees. Compensation and with a passion for manufacturing, a global mindset, and benefits reflect the results of these evaluations so as to the ability to think for oneself and work independently create a workplace where workers can feel that they are with enthusiasm. In addition to establishing a specialized performing valuable work and where ambitious organization, the Human Resources Development employees are encouraged to perform to their maximum Department, dedicated to the development of our potential. We will continue implementing personnel personnel, we utilize rank-based group training, policies based on rewarding effort and achievement and specialized skill acquisition and enhancement training, permitting a flexible response to future changes in the and on-the-job (OJT) training. workplace environment and employment structure. ● Global Human Resources Development The Minebea Group is actively developing global human Workforce Diversity resources. In FY2013, we conducted a management training program for employees prior to their overseas As an organization that conducts global business appointments, which was attended by 95 employees. activities, the Minebea Group believes it is important to Additionally, we offered employees opportunities to strengthen human resource capabilities through improve their English language skills prior to overseas workforce diversity. We are striving to create work assignments. environments where all employees can maximize their Our personnel guidelines stipulate five-year terms for talents without regard to gender, age, nationality, or overseas assignments as a way to provide as many disability. 25 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 ● Promoting a Women-Friendly Workplace them to pass on their skills and expertise to younger More than 38,000 female employees are working for the employees. In response to the implementation of the Act Commitment from Minebea Group worldwide, accounting for about 70% of of Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons, in our total workforce. For this reason, we will continue to principle we re-employ all employees who have a desire the President actively work toward the promotion of female employees to continue working after mandatory retirement. In to management positions, and strive to create a FY2013, we rehired 43 employees in Japan. workplace where they can continue to demonstrate their abilities and play an active role. We have set specific targets of raising the ratio of female employees in Respect for Human Rights manager or higher positions to 3% of all such positions Hot Topics (1.7% in 2013) and the ratio of females in assistant In light of the importance of corporate compliance manager or equivalent positions to 8% of all such (corporate ethics and legal compliance), the Minebea positions (4.4% in 2013) by 2017. Group prohibits unfair discrimination due to race, age, ● Hiring global human resources gender, nationality and religion. For employees The Minebea Group has set a goal to develop and utilize assigned to overseas sites in regions with different employees who can support global business expansion. cultures, we provide sensitivity training prior to their Minebea Products As one initiative, the Group is actively hiring foreign assignments. Additionally, during rank-based training, exchange students studying at Japanese universities. we include educational programs to prevent harassment Among the 64 new hires joining the company in April based on the Minebea Group Officer and Employee in Society 2014, one was non-Japanese. Compliance Guidelines. Moreover, we are working to In FY2013, the Minebea Group continued to prevent human rights abuses by providing a participate in the Boston Career Forum in the U.S. to consultation center and an internal reporting system. recruit Japanese studying abroad. We plan to continue participating in this event in coming years. Initiatives for Creating Environments Special Feature ● Initiatives Regarding Employees with Disabilities Conducive to Working The Minebea Group actively hires persons with disabilities. As of June 2013, the percentage of ● Support for Diversity in Work Patterns employees with disabilities was 1.69%. We plan to We believe that the Minebea Group’s attention to the bolster our efforts to raise employment of persons with work-life balance of its employees will be rewarding disabilities to the legally mandated rate (2.0%). them and lead to a sense of fulfillment. To this end, we Our initiatives also consider improvement in the have a flexible system that enables employees to take Management Report workplace environment by ensuring that all employees, time off for childbirth, childrearing, caring for family no matter whether or not they have a disability, are members, and other important events in their private motivated to work by having people with specialized lives. We have also established the Overseas Vacation skills acting in leadership roles. for Veteran Employees Program, which gives employees who have worked for Minebea for over 30 years an opportunity to rest and recuperate. Ratio of Employees with Disabilities in We will continue to improve the workplace the Minebea Group Workforce environment so our employees may work with peace of Social Report (Unit: %) mind. 2.0 1.5 Principal Special Leave Benefits for Employees 1.0 in Japan and the Number of Users (FY2013) 1.27 1.74 1.91 1.71 1.69 Benefit Description Total users Environmental Report 0.5 Paid leave or shorter working hours for 0.0 Child care leave employees caring for children 98 persons 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Paid leave or shorter working hours for ● Initiatives Regarding Reemployment of Seasoned Family care leave employees with family members requiring care 2 persons Employees Overseas The retirement age for Minebea Group employees in vacation for Trip to Thailand, China (Shanghai), or Japan is 62. So that highly skilled and motivated veteran Singapore for employees with 30 years 26 persons employees of service, and their families employees may continue working longer, and to enable Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 26 Relationships with Employees appropriately and ensure that information about such Using the Child Care Leave System incidents is shared with other production sites in each My daughter was born in country to prevent similar incidents in the future. October 2013, and I’m now using the childcare leave system. My days are hectic with feeding, ▶▶Workplace Injuries and Other Accidents in the Minebea Group caring, and changing diapers for (Unit: incidents) her. When she takes afternoon 100 naps, I have a moment to read a book and prepare meals. All in 80 all, it is a very satisfying lifestyle. In October 2014, I’ll return to Ayumi Shii Personnel & General Affairs Division 60 work after my daughter turns one Yonago Personnel & year old. I’m grateful to have had General Affairs Section 40 47 69 55 68 60 plenty of time during my leave finding a good nursery school, 20 focusing on schools that are both conveniently located and have a good overall atmosphere. 0 Now that I’m now preparing to return to work, I’m studying 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) ways to efficiently use my time so that I can perform both my job and my household duties in a limited amount of time. I’m now considering whether or not to use Shorter Working Hours ●Promoting Health Management for Childcare system after the childcare leave. Thanks to these The Minebea Group strives to maintain and improve the systems, I can devote myself to childcare now and have the health of its employees in accordance with health-related opportunity to use the shorter working hour system to continue caring for my daughter after I return to work. laws in each country and the circumstances of each work site. We provide employees with regular health ● Labor Relations checkups, health consultations, send notices to As recited in the Minebea Group Code of Conduct, the employees to curb overtime work hours, and have Minebea Group recognizes freedom of association and industrial physicians make regular rounds at work sites. endeavors to build harmonious labor relations by In regard to mental health care, which has drawn holding regular labor-management meetings and taking social interest in recent years, we have a consultation other measures to actively communicate with labor structure in place led by industrial physicians and unions and employee representatives on issues such as counselors. Additionally, the health advisors working at the work environment and working conditions. each plant meet quarterly to discuss issues. Our employee magazine regularly publishes mental health information and we distribute mental health checklists Health and Occupational Safety Management during regular health checkups. In these ways, we are The Minebea Group firmly believes that a safe, healthy promoting prevention through employee self-assessment workplace is key to improving product and service and care. quality, consistency of manufacturing operations, and employee morale. Future Issues and Goals Each of our plants has a Health and Safety Committee comprised of numerous working groups with Moving forward, we will take various measures to responsibility for workplace safety, health issues, and improve work-life balance and strengthen health other such concerns. These committees meet regularly managements in order to encourage high levels of to review working group progress toward individual motivation and maintain a work environment in which targets. In addition, the Minebea Group’s principal employees can work energetically. plants in its mass production bases of Thailand, China, Furthermore, we continue to take various measures to and Singapore have obtained OHSAS 18001 certification. create work environments which can nurture In the event of a fire, workplace injury, traffic accident, global-minded employees, pass down know-how from one or other similar incident, safety managers take the lead generation to the next, and leverage our diversity. These in identifying the cause and handling the issue measures will support our growth as a global enterprise. 27 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Social Report Relationships with Suppliers Standard, and agrees to abide by the Minebea Group Basic Approach Code of Conduct. Where necessary, we conduct The Minebea Group’s business is supported by inspections of the supplier’s production facilities. In Commitment from relationships with numerous suppliers. The Minebea FY2013, we certified a total of 52 suppliers in this the President Group has adopted Basic Procurement Policies on manner. which healthy partnerships are built. In order to promote CSR throughout our supply chain, we have distributed Green Procurement the Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines to our suppliers and are striving to facilitate their We have established and revised the Minebea Group Hot Topics understanding and cooperation. Green Procurement Standard to ensure compliance with countries’ laws and directives on chemical Please see our website for detailed information on our Basic substances, to satisfy our customers, and to reduce the Procurement Policy and Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. use of substances having an environmental impact. http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/procurements/ Under these guidelines, we require our suppliers to index.html provide products (raw materials, parts, components, Minebea Products and packaging materials) that are free of hazardous CSR Procurement substances, and also to submit safety certifications, in Society analysis reports, and other similar documentation. In Considering the global scope of the Minebea Group’s FY2013, 1,547 suppliers to the Minebea Group were business activities, we believe it is important to promote cooperating with our Green Procurement policies. CSR throughout our supply chain. In March 2012, we We are also preparing an update to the Minebea took steps to establish a framework for CSR Group Green Procurement Standard which is scheduled Special Feature procurement with the formulation of the Minebea Group to be released in FY2014. CSR Procurement Guidelines, which is based on the Minebea Group Code of Conduct. In November 2012, Response to Conflict Minerals from we added a section on our response to conflict minerals Democratic Republic of the Congo to the guidelines and requested cooperation from our suppliers. In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Management Report In FY2013, we created the Minebea Group CSR Commission adopted a disclosure rule mandated by Procurement Self-assessment Checklist in order to U.S. financial reform legislation requiring companies to grasp the status of CSR activities at our suppliers. The disclose the use of conflict minerals. We responded by checklist was sent to 250 suppliers in Japan and their formulating a Minebea Group policy on conflict minerals responses were received. We are analyzing the results in October 2012 and adding a section on our response and will collaborate with our suppliers to enhance CSR to conflict minerals to the Minebea Group CSR promotion throughout our supply chain. Procurement Guidelines. Our suppliers have been (Please see page 6 for details of this initiative.) asked to cooperate with the revised guidelines. Social Report Additionally, we continue to respond to research Supplier Selection Policy requests from customers by providing responses using our research database. Whenever the Minebea Group initiates a relationship with a new supplier, we ask the supplier to confirm its Future Issues and Goals agreement with our approach to materials procurement Environmental Report and to proceed in accordance with our New Supplier We are creating a framework for global CSR Certification Standards to ensure strict compliance with procurement in order to promote CSR throughout our our Basic Procurement Policies. In particular, we assess global supply chain. As part of this initiative, by the end suppliers on the basis of ten attributes, including of FY2015, we plan to distribute the Minebea Group whether or not the company in question will be able to CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist to conduct business in a stable, continuous manner, suppliers in Thailand and China and analyze the status satisfies the Minebea Group Green Procurement of activities through the responses. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 28 Social Report Relationships with Local Communities and Global Society ●Initiatives in China Basic Approach Support for Social Welfare by Employees As an enterprise operating on a global scale, the At the Zhuhai Plant, employee volunteers participate in Minebea Group believes in the importance of building a program to deliver donated goods to the elderly in sound partnerships with local communities through senior citizen homes and children in welfare facilities. good communication. To establish firm roots in those The volunteers visit the facilities to deliver traditional communities, we carry out social contribution activities Chinese cakes and other food supplies to the elderly meeting local needs based upon our “Five Principles.” and children, as well as stationery and other needed goods. The volunteers also spend time talking and enjoying recreation with the facility residents to deepen Contributing to Global Society their friendships. ● Initiatives in North America In addition, plant employees take part in blood Joining the Effort to Eradicate Cancer donation drives and other social contribution activities to Led by employee volunteers, the U.S. sales subsidiaries support the enhancement of their local community. and manufacturing plants support Relay For Life, a charity campaign to raise funds for cancer research and promote awareness. The campaign is held in more than 20 countries, with more than 4 million people taking part each year. Minebea Group employees celebrate cancer survivors, offer memorials for cancer victims who have passed away, and take part in fund-raising activities. The funds raised by employees are matched by their Employees take part in the activities companies, and the total amount is presented as a donation to the program. ●Initiatives in Thailand Preventing Drug Abuse The Minebea Group’s Thai subsidiary is collaborating with local residents to carry out awareness campaigns aimed at preventing drug abuse among young people in employee households and the local communities. In February 2014, the subsidiary sponsored an education program at the Wadpayom Elementary Employees take part in the event School located near Bang Pa-in Plant to educate ● Initiatives in Europe children, through videos and role-playing games, about Work Experience for Regional Students the dangers of drugs and ways to resist the temptation The Lincoln Plant in the United Kingdom offers local to use them. The subsidiary also sponsors baseball, students work experience internships of one-to-two soccer and other sporting events for employee families weeks in order to deepen young people’s understanding and community residents to support healthy lifestyles for of working life. young people. The internship program matches each participant’s duties with their interests, allowing them to gain a general understanding of work processes and responsibilities associated with quality management. The program is implemented in a manner which ensures the health and safety of the interns while also allowing them to develop a basic understanding of Minebea’s business and overall operations. Participating students and representatives of their schools have expressed their gratitude for the opportunity, as the program serves to deepen local residents’ Employees teach elementary school children about the dangers of drugs understanding of Minebea and nurture communication. 29 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Contributing to Local Communities ●Community Contributions from Karuizawa Plant Commitment from The Karuizawa Plant holds discussions with members of ●Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support the local community and promotes a variety of Minebea established the “Charitable Trust—Minebea community development activities. Scholarship Fund for Orphans of the Great East Japan Regular Discussions with the Community the President Earthquake” as an endowment for children orphaned by After holding a dialogue with the community in FY2012, the Great East Japan Earthquake. The scholarship fund the Karuizawa Plant instituted semiannual meetings to provides annual grants of 100,000 yen to orphans of afford opportunities for communication with community elementary school and junior high age. In March 2014, members. Hot Topics third-year junior high school children receiving support The FY2013 discussions focused on collaboration with from the trust were invited to Tokyo to celebrate their the community during disasters, local procurement, and graduation alongside employee supporters. the community’s environment. Community members and plant representatives enjoyed a frank exchange of ideas. Acting as an Employee Supporter Signing an Agreement on Disaster Support I’m originally from Miyagi In October 2013, Minebea signed an agreement with Minebea Products Prefecture. During the earthquake, Miyota Town, where the Karuizawa Plant is located, I was a student living outside the allowing the town to utilize the plant’s heliport in times of prefecture, and since I wasn’t in Society able to support the community disasters in order to convey relief supplies and personnel. immediately after the disaster during its greatest time of need, I wanted to find some way to help the local communities as an employee volunteer. At first, the young students attending our Naoya Murakami Special Feature R&D Group event were tense, but they Rotary Components Engineering gradually warmed up during the Development Division Electronic Device & Component event and began to smile, and Manufacturing Headquarters their joy was a pleasure for me to Rotary Components Engineering Development Division experience. There is still no clear prospect for completing the reconstruction of the Tohoku Karuizawa Plant’s heliport region. Although this endowment fund for orphans will likely end in about 10 years, after they are grown, I strongly feel the Support for NPO Asama Highland Sports Club Management Report need to work hard and make it possible for our company to provide long-term recovery support. As part of its amateur sports promotion, the Karuizawa Plant supports curling through donations to the Asama ● Support for Hokkaido University Formula Team Highland Sports Club, an incorporated nonprofit The Hokkaido University Formula Team is an officially organization. The monetary donations assist the club in recognized club sponsored by the School of Engineering. holding curling competitions and support junior and The student-led club designs and builds Formula wheelchair teams. racecars with the purpose of learning manufacturing processes and team management, while nurturing Social Report people who can succeed on an international level. The Hamamatsu Plant has aided the team since FY2007, recognizing the team’s worthy activities. In FY2013, the plant donated funds for the team to enter the Student Formula Japan Competition as well as Environmental Report spherical bearings and other Minebea parts. A curling tournament (Minebea Cup) Future Issues and Goals By continuing to make active contributions to local communities in and outside Japan, the Minebea Group will strive to be an organization which deepens its community Hokkaido University Formula Team roots and expands sustainably with local communities. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 30 Social Report Relationships with Shareholders Shareholder Breakdown (as of March 31, 2014) Timely Disclosure/Disclosure Policy In addition to disclosing information required by Individual investors, governments, etc applicable laws and regulations in terms of timing and 15.9% level of detail, Minebea has also established its own disclosure policy to ensure a proactive and fair approach Japanese Financial in this regard. corporations Shareholder institutions 9.1% Breakdown 43.6% Communication with Shareholders Non-Japanese investors ● General Meeting of Shareholders 28.8% Minebea’s Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders is Securities held annually in June. In addition, we provide companies shareholders with semiannual reports to keep them 2.6% informed of the state of the company’s business and our IR Website management policies. ● Communication with Institutional Investors Minebea’s IR website won the “2013 Internet IR Minebea holds investor meetings and conference calls Excellence Award” from Daiwa Investor Relations Co., on financial results for institutional investors and Ltd., as well as the “Gomez IR Site Overall Ranking securities analysts. This information is also published on 2014 Gold Award” from Morningstar’s Gomez our website in Japanese and English, simultaneously or Consulting Division. In addition, Nikko Investor as soon as possible. Relations recognized our website with its “2013 We spend approximately one week per year in each Company Website Best Company Award” in the all region visiting investors in North America, Europe, and Asia. listed company website ranking and the sector-based We also participate in investor seminars sponsored by ranking. We have won all three of these awards for six securities companies, while holding numerous private consecutive years. meetings as part of active efforts to disclose financial and non-financial information. Shareholder Returns Starting with the appointment of the current president and chief executive officer in FY2009, Minebea has worked toward two goals: maximizing earnings per share and enhancing corporate value, and solidifying the corporate foundation for our centennial. In FY2013, 2013 2013 the Minebea Group’s sales and net income reached record levels, and the operating income returned to a level achieved just before the Lehman crisis. All of our business segments rebounded to profitability. As a result, we raised our annual dividend ￥1 per share from Future Issues and Goals the previous year’s ￥7 per share to ￥8 per share. Through enhanced IR activities, we will work to expand Moving forward, we plan to continue returning cash to our communication with shareholders and to promote shareholders in accordance with our growth. greater understanding of the Minebea Group among all In addition, we repurchase our shares to enable us to types of investors. pursue flexible capital policies in response to the changing business environment. Repurchases were previously made in November 2008, February 2010, and May to June 2011. 31 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Environmental Report Environmental Management Basic Approach The Minebea Group has established an environmental Commitment from management system based on the Minebea Group the President Environmental Policy, and all Group companies are striving to contribute to the protection of the earth’s environment and the sustainable development of human kind. As examples of specific initiatives in this regard, we adopt highly energy-efficient equipment and processes Audit at the Karuizawa plant and have set a FY2015 target of reducing total Group Hot Topics Environmental Education CO2 emissions per basic unit of output by 5% compared with the baseline year (FY2010). We are also ●Basic Approach and FY2013 Initiatives strengthening initiatives to minimize waste materials The Minebea Group provides training on environmental and wastewater from our plants in order to effectively management basics to all new employees and utilize raw materials and water resources. We also make midcareer hires in order to raise the environmental contributions to the environment through our products, consciousness of each employee. In addition, all Group Minebea Products including the active development of communications employees receive general environmental education control technologies, sensors and new materials which which explains environmental goals, targets and action in Society are central to energy management in highly efficient plans based on the Minebea Group Environmental motors, lighting, and energy conversion devices, as well Policy and each site’s ISO 14001 certification. In as “smart” buildings, plants, and urban residential addition to these programs, we provide training for ISO environments. 14001 internal auditors, waste management education, and drills which simulate natural disasters and other Special Feature types of emergencies. Environmental Management System ● Environmental Management Structure Environmental Accounting In order to carry out the Minebea Group Environmental Policy, the Minebea Group has an environmental The Minebea Group conducts environmental accounting to management structure headed by the Board of Directors confirm its costs for environmental protection activities and Management Report and the President and Chief Executive Officer. We also the effect of its investments. The Japanese Ministry of the have an Environment Management Committee, a Environment’s Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 promotion organization composed mostly of executive is used as a reference. The Minebea Group’s officers, and a Group Environmental Protection environmental conservation costs totaled 5,919 million yen Committee, which is staffed by working-level members. in FY2013, a 23% increase over FY2012. This increase This structure enables rapid implementation of was largely the results of fluctuations in exchange rates. environmental policy. Each work site also has a Plant On a constant-currency basis, our FY2013 costs and General Manager of Environmental Management and a investment rose by approximately 3% over FY2012. Social Report Manager of Environmental Management who promote specific environmental conservation measures at plants Environmental Protection Costs, FY2010 – FY2013 and offices. (Unit: 100 million yen) Cost Investment ● Environmental audits 60 The Minebea Group is promoting the acquisition of ISO 50 14001 certification globally at each of its major sites. We Environmental Report have acquired certification for all of our plants 40 worldwide. To maintain certification, we also conduct 51 30 annual external audits by third-party organizations and 34 42 34 internal audits by internal auditors. We also acquired 20 certification for the Tokyo Head Office in June 2014 10 following its relocation in January 2013. 6 5 6 8 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 32 Environmental Management product—as well as such products as machined Initiatives to Protect Biodiversity components, rotary components, and electronic ● Basic Approach devices. When environmental impact is viewed in terms In FY2012, the Minebea Group revised its of the ratio of total production by region to sales, Asia Environmental Policy and added “contribution to the (excluding Japan) is estimated to account for international community” as a new initiative. As part of approximately 80% of the Minebea Group’s the initiative, we recognize that our business activities consumption and output. may have an effect on biodiversity and ecosystems, and In FY2013, the input amount of raw materials we will work to conserve nature. As a first step, increased by approximately 23% year on year due to a recognizing the importance of understanding the impact surge in sales. We limited the increase in total energy of our business activities, we are conducting research input, however, to 2% year on year. The amount of on how the Minebea Group’s business relates to industrial oil rose by 5% year on year, while the amount biodiversity. of solvents and cleaning agents was on par with FY2012, reflecting our ability to restrain our impact on Minebea’s Environmental Impact the environment relative to the amount of sales The Minebea Group has plants and sales offices in 18 (production). countries around the world, manufacturing and selling a The Group’s environmental impact for FY2013 is range of products including bearings—our main summarized below. Input and Output (FY2013 Actual) Product Development INPUT & Manufacturing OUTPUT Raw Materials and Components Waste Recycled and reused 54,060 tons Steel 87,800 tons Reused or recycled internally 3,421 tons Landfill waste 4,564 tons Resin 8,200 tons Discharged externally 63,622 tons Energy Wastewater volumes 697,000 m3 Total energy 8,880 TJ Wastewater COD 59 tons Product Development & Manufacturing Electricity 890,653 MWh Reused or recycled internally 872,000 m3 BOD 23 tons LPG 506 tons Discharged externally Natural gas 2,853,635 m3 SS 15 tons City gas 774,190 m3 n-hexane extracts 2 tons Oil 1,903,000 liters Water CO22 510,766 tons（14,435 tons） NOx3 1,482 tons（12.0 tons） Water supply 2,375,000 m3 Atmospheric SOx4 1,580 tons（0.8 tons） Industrial water 91,000 m3 emissions Particulates5 107 tons（0.2 tons） Groundwater 870,000 m3 Note: Includes NOx, SOx, and particulates from electric power generation. Figures in parentheses Rainwater 307,000 m3 represent directly discharged amount. Spring water 23,000 m3 River water 423,000 m3 Chemical PRTR substance emissions 18.21 tons substances Chemical Substances PRTR substance transfer volume 1.98 tons PRTR substances handling volume1 25.04 tons Industrial oil 5,800,000 liters Product CO2 71,148 tons Solvents/ shipping Note: From worldwide land, sea, and air transport cleaning agents 2,000,000 liters 1. PRTR chemicals: Substances included in the PRTR law (The Chemical Substance Control Law /Domestic Japanese Law), for which companies must register and report volumes released and transferred. The figures shown are those reported to authorities. 2. CO2: Carbon dioxide 3. NOx: Nitrogen oxides 4. SOx: Sulfur oxides 5. Particulates: Microscopic solid matter contained in exhaust gas generated through combustion, heating, or chemical reaction 33 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Environmental Report Initiatives for Preventing Global Warming Basic Approach Initiatives in Office Spaces Commitment from The Minebea Group recognizes that the international In our office spaces, we strove to reduce CO2 emissions issue of global warming, along with the related issues of by thoroughly promoting casual cool business attire in the President soaring energy prices and abnormal climatic conditions, the summer, minimizing lighting usage, and pose a significant threat to the sustainability of its implementing “no-overtime days.” In January 2013, we business activities. relocated the Tokyo Head Office to a new building In response, each office and plant in the Minebea purchased in Tokyo. At the new building and office Group is proactively promoting energy efficiency spaces within, we are taking global-warming Hot Topics initiatives in order to combat global warming after having countermeasures and striving to raise the level of completed formulating the main measures for their sites. environmental consciousness. Additionally, our Energy Conservation Promotion Committee, which is made up of representatives of all Initiatives at Offices our business units, promotes the sharing of knowledge and technologies accumulated from past activities along ●Plant roof coated with heat shield paint (Hamamatsu Plant) Minebea Products with case studies on exemplary energy-efficient The roof of the Hamamatsu Plant is gradually being initiatives. The sharing of this wisdom among the coated with heat shield paint in order to prevent Group’s business units is bolstering the entire Group’s temperatures from rising inside the plant during in Society approach to global warming prevention. summer. A comparison of uncoated and coated areas of the roof found the uncoated surface temperature to reach 43.3°C compared with a coated surface Results of FY2013 Initiatives temperature of 27.0°C, reflecting the effectiveness of Special Feature The Minebea Group’s emissions of CO2 in FY2013 the paint at restraining temperature. In FY2013, 2,662m2 totaled 510,766 tons, 5% more than in FY2012. In terms of the roof was coated, reducing the generation of heat of basic units of production, CO2 emissions declined by 158,964 kcal/h, for an estimated annual cost savings 20% over FY2012 to 1.37 tons per million yen of of 1.3 million yen. production. The cause of this decrease was highly energy-efficient manufacturing activities amid strong business growth, as well as efforts taken by plants Management Report Portion of roof uncoated around the world to reduce CO2 emissions. (black area on left) In FY2013, the Group’s CO2 emissions generated Portion of roof coated with heat shield paint from logistics operations totaled 71,148 tons, an (white area on right) increase of 19% compared with FY2012. ▶CO2 Emissions (Total and Per Basic Unit) ▶ (Unit: tons) (Unit: tons/million yen) 600,000 5.00 Social Report Czech 508,081 505,012 510,766 4.50 Left: Uncoated area (43.3°C) Cambodia 484,288 500,000 Right: Coated area (27.0°C) 4.00 Slovakia 3.50 U.S. 400,000 Germany Future Issues and Goals 3.00 U.K. 300,000 2.50 The Minebea Group will continue to advance its 2.01 Environmental Report Malaysia 1.89 1.71 2.00 measures to prevent global warming. As a medium-term Singapore 200,000 1.37 1.50 goal, by FY2015 we plan to reduce CO2 emissions per China 1.00 basic unit of production by 5% compared with FY2010, 100,000 Thailand 0.50 or 1% annually. Japan In terms of long-terms goals for 2030 and 2050, we 0 0.00 per basic unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) will monitor the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and policies in countries around the *Emissions generated by product shipment are not included. world in formulating our initiatives. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 34 Environmental Report Initiatives for Effective Use of Resources Basic Approach At our mass production plants in Thailand and China, we are recycling water inside the plants to the greatest The Minebea Group recognizes that there are limits to extent possible and prevent external emissions through the availability of resources used in its products, which our “Plant Wastewater Zero System.” Water emissions include metals, plastics, and other raw materials, along from Group plants in FY2013 totaled 697,000 m3, a with oil, natural gas, and other energy sources. decline of 87,000 m3 compared with FY2012. Additionally, with regard to rare earth elements indispensable to the manufacture of electronics, since Initiatives at Business Sites the number of countries producing and exporting the materials is limited, they are more susceptible to export ● Participation in thermal recycling (Yonago and restrictions. other plants) We believe that the effective use of resources is Up until seven or eight years ago, only certain types of critical to the continuation of our business activities, and waste plastics from the Yonago Plant were recycled into to that end we are taking various management reusable materials. Since then, the waste plastics have measures. been collected as RPF* raw materials, and today nearly all the waste plastics are converted into RPF at a Results of FY2013 Initiatives contractor’s facilities and reused in an electric power boiler at a paper manufacturing company. In FY2013, principal raw materials used by Minebea In FY2013, the Yonago Plant generated about 41 tons Group included approximately 87,800 tons of steel and of waste plastic and was able to recycle 98.1% of the 8,200 tons of resin, with the total amount of materials waste into RPF materials through the establishment of used increasing by approximately 23% compared to the internal waste separation standards and progress in previous fiscal year. recycling activities. Waste plastics from the Karuizawa The amount of landfill waste generated by the Group’s and Hamamatsu plants are also being converted into operations in FY2013 totaled 4,564 tons. As a result, RPF raw materials. the amount of landfill waste in FY2013 increased by 234 * RPF (Refuse Paper & Plastic Fuel): tons compared to FY2012. A solid fuel made primarily from waste plastics and difficult-to-recycle paper. RPF generates a high amount of heat, on par with coal and oil, propelling its demand as an alternative to fossil fuels. Waste Processed (FY2013 Actual) 1. Reused or recycled internally 3,421 Future Issues and Goals 2. Transported outside the company as waste 63,622 For FY2014, we have set a target of limiting the amount of landfill waste to 4,850 tons following a recalculation of 3. Reused or recycled externally 54,060 previous results. Currently, we are researching the 4. Disposed of as landfill types of landfill waste we generate and conducting 4,564 market analysis in an effort to further lower waste 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 (Unit: tons) amounts in the future. Japan Thailand China Singapore Malaysia Cambodia U.K. Germany U.S. Slovakia Czech Minebea Group 3. Reused or recycled External externally Waste generation 2. Transported outside the company as Incinerator 4. Disposed of as Incinerated waste waste ash landfill 1. Reused or recycled internally Waste disposed of directly as landfill 35 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Environmental Report Initiatives for Reducing Impacts on the Environment Basic Approach cases, the waste is disposed of through third-party Commitment from waste disposal companies. Plant effluents and emissions can be a source of water, The Minebea Group selects reliable waste disposal air, and soil pollution that poses a threat to local companies, and conducts regular inspections of their the President communities. At the Minebea Group, we believe that disposal sites to confirm the status of waste disposal harmony with local communities is indispensable to our and management. In Japan, employees in charge of business activities, and as such, we are striving to waste disposal and management at each plant have reduce our impact on the environment. begun using a common checklist form to confirm the on-site status of disposal sites. We will continue to Results of FY2013 Initiatives Hot Topics cooperate with waste disposal companies to ensure that their waste disposal processes do not generate soil, In order to ensure compliance with the environmental water, or air pollution. laws and regulations of each country and community, the Minebea Group has established environmental standards surpassing its legal requirements and Minebea Products undertakes daily compliance monitoring. In FY2013, there were no incidents which violated either the legal requirements or the Group’s own standards. The Group in Society also monitors the impact of its plants on the surrounding communities by conducting environmental patrols at all of its plants to ensure there are no leakages, foul odors, noise, or vibration caused by the plants. Inspection of waste disposal companies in Japan Special Feature Plant Initiatives ●Operation of Plant Wastewater Zero System (Thailand, China) ● Plant Wastewater Purification Minebea Group plants that use large amounts of water Prior to releasing wastewater into rivers, Minebea Group during processing are taking measures to reduce plants use their own processing equipment to purify wastewater emissions. Though water is discharged from wastewater to within fixed environmental standards. plants only after being purified to standards mandated Management Report These plants adhere to environmental laws of the by environmental regulations in each country and countries and localities in which they operate, and region, the wastewater may still have an impact on the independently monitor such wastewater discharges, local environment. To address this issue, in Thailand including regular testing for such metrics as pH1, COD2, and China, where water use by the Group is high, plants BOD3, SS4, and the oil content of n-hexane extracts5. have introduced the “Plant Wastewater Zero System” In FY2013, no anomalous monitored values were designed to reduce to zero the wastewater emissions reported by any plant. In addition, no complaints relating and the impact on the environment. to these metrics were received. Under this system, water that previously was purified Social Report and discharged is purified to a higher level and the entire 1. pH: A scale indicating whether substances are acidic or alkaline. pH7 is neutral. pH values below 7 discharge reused within the plant to eliminate external indicate increasing acidity, while values above 7 indicate increasing alkalinity. 2. COD (chemical oxygen demand): emissions. The “Plant Wastewater Zero System” has The amount of oxygen consumed to oxidize organic substances (pollution) in water. COD measurement takes less time than BOD measurement, but is less reliable. COD is generally used as been introduced at the Bang Pa-in and Ayutthaya plants a metric in wastewater management for sea, lake, and marsh waters. 3. BOD (biological oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen required for bacteria to consume and decompose organic matter (pollution) in in Thailand along with the Shanghai and Xicen plants in water. Higher values indicate greater degrees of pollution. Measurement takes several days. BOD is China. Environmental Report generally used to observe effluent water in rivers. 4. SS (suspended solids): The volume of substances suspended in water. The higher the number, the greater the degree of water pollution. 5. n-hexane extracts: Future Issues and Goals Substances extracted from oils and detergents that are difficult to volatilize in water using a substance called n-hexane as solvent. In this report they signify mineral oils. The Minebea Group continues to conduct business ● Investigating Landfill Waste Sites (Japan, operations in compliance with environmental laws in Thailand, China, etc.) Japan and around the world, and is proceeding with At each plant and office, there are types of waste which cleanup work in areas where it has caused are difficult to reuse or recycle within the site. In these environmental contamination in the past. Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 36 Environmental Report Product-related Initiatives for the Environment new ball bearing unit reduces the frictional resistance to Basic Approach improve the operational efficiency of the turbocharger. Since its products are utilized in many different kinds of ●Developing thinner light guide plates for smartphones end-products, the Minebea Group believes that it has an The Minebea Group has developed light guide plates especially important role in providing parts that measuring less than 0.3 mm thick for use in LED contribute to environmental consciousness throughout (light-emitting diode) backlight systems illuminating the product life cycle. This responsibility extends from smartphone and tablet screens. ensuring that its parts are free of materials hazardous to The light guide plate is critical to spreading LED light the environment, to energy-efficiency, resource-efficiency, evenly over the screen. The new plates are about 30% and long-life. thinner than Minebea’s previous models. Minebea Green Products, which we have been Besides smartphone and tablet devices, our new light developing based on this approach, will continue to be guide plate is also used in automobile indicator panels promoted as part of the “Five Arrows” strategy aimed at and other products, helping to make a wide range of making contributions to the development of “Smart products thinner and lighter. Buildings” and “Smart Cities” through the promotion of “smart” product development. Minebea Group’s Environmentally Conscious Products The products that the Minebea Group manufactures and sells are environmentally conscious products. This means that they satisfy various countries’ environmental laws and customers’ environmental requirements from the development and design stage as well as undergo voluntary product chemical substance evaluations and product assessments. Light guide plate for LED backlights measuring less than 0.3 mm in thickness ● Development of high heat-resistant ball bearing unit for turbochargers The Minebea Group has developed a high heat-resistant Management of Environmental Impact ball bearing unit for turbochargers for automobile Materials Included in Products engines. Turbochargers have become increasingly popular as a device to improve automobile fuel The Minebea Group has issued the Minebea Group efficiency and save energy. The extreme temperature of Green Procurement Standard requiring suppliers to the engine exhaust gas entering the turbocharger has supply products (raw materials and parts) free of made it difficult to use conventional ball bearings. The hazardous substances along with data and documentation verifying their products’ safety. We also conduct our own verification tests of suppliers’ products using XRF (X-ray fluorescence spectrometers) to ensure the products are free of hazardous materials subject to RoHS regulations. Future Goals and Issues The Minebea Group will continue to accurately grasp the detailed needs of society in order to develop products that can contribute to safety, energy-efficiency and resource-efficiency. High heat-resistant ball bearing unit for turbochargers 37 Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 Third-party Opinion Comments on the Minebea CSR Report Mr. Keisuke Takegahara initiatives by adopting ISO 26000 as a framework to Director, Environmental assess their status. In terms of social engagement, the Initiatives & Corporate content is easier to digest because the company has added Social Responsibility– an emphasis to each theme while following its established Support Department structure. In this report, while the content regarding Development Bank of employees’ activities was particularly strong because of the Japan Inc. excellent feature articles, the content on engagement with suppliers also left a strong impression. In previous reports, The Minebea Group CSR Minebea described dialogues with suppliers and its CSR Report 2014 presents an procurement guidelines. In this report, the explanation of the appropriate and powerful survey on CSR procurement goes even further in showing message on the how Minebea values its communication with suppliers. In the formulation of the new environmental sections, the essence of Minebea’s Medium-term Business environmental management is clearly communicated and we Plan, a critical juncture can see how the company’s unique environmental approach for the company, by focusing on how people at the heart of its is being sustained. For example, the report explains the business and technological capabilities and global expansion results of sophisticated environmental management, are supporting its basic management concept, “manufacturing including the improvement in energy efficiency despite the with sincerity.” large increase in sales, and the sustained high awareness of The feature articles made a particularly strong impression. the importance of making environmental contributions The first feature article elaborately communicates the voices through products. of the domestic employees putting the company’s “Five Overall, I find that the content is worthy of a global Principles” basic management policy into practice. The company, and including the improved separation of content interviews vividly show how the superior technology of between the website and printed report, this is an excellent Minebea is passed down through driving ambition and CSR report. Additionally, the top message introduces the diverse, close communication. The report begins with a new “Five Arrows” strategy, and since this indicates the feature on the Tokyo Research & Development Center springboard for the company’s next stage of development, I (TRDC) and clearly explains the strategy behind the center’s feel this should be highlighted in more detail. The strategy R&D activities. The TRDC’s pioneering initiatives and the embodies the company’s future growth and value generated voices of the employees in the first feature article combine to for society, and therefore is material to the company’s CSR. clearly focus the report’s content around technological In the future, I would expect Minebea to explain specific capabilities. The second and third features on global initiatives under each of the arrows, along with the KPI and expansion vividly show how “manufacturing with sincerity” is validation methods. This way, stakeholders can see how the taking root overseas. In previous years, Minebea explained company is synchronizing CSR with the business activities. I its past activities for growing with employees. In this year’s look forward to seeing Minebea’s progress. report, however, we also see ongoing initiatives through an * KPI：Key Performance Indicator article on how the Cambodian plant is starting its human Mr. Keisuke Takegahara resources development with educational opportunities for After graduation from Hitotsubashi University Faculty of Law, Mr. employees. At the same time, we can see the outstanding Takegahara joined the Japan Development Bank (now the Development Bank of Japan, Inc.). He assumed his present post following stints in the results of this approach in the high level of success at NMB bank’s Research Department and Policy Planning Department and its Minebea Thailand. This global perspective broadens our Representative Office in Frankfurt. Mr. Takegahara is also a member of understanding of “manufacturing with sincerity.” several councils, including the Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environment Industry Market Size Research Committee and the In terms of CSR management aspects, Minebea is taking Environment Growth Engine Study Council, along with the Cabinet a more sophisticated approach to global expansion of CSR Office’s Future City Promotion Board and the Future City Assessment and Research Committee. On Receiving a Third-party Opinion the R&D strategy behind the establishment of the Tokyo Research & Development Center as well as our engagement Mr. Tatsuo Matsuda with suppliers through the implementation of the CSR Managing Executive Officer procurement survey. The praise we have received for these Officer in Charge of CSR Promotion Office, initiatives will encourage us to further enhance our CSR Compliance Promotion Office at Finance & initiatives in the future. Compliance Promotion Division Mr. Takegahara has pointed out the need to advance our I would like to thank Mr. Takegahara for providing his CSR in tandem with our business activities. As we continue valuable insight again this year. to communicate with our stakeholders, we will identify This year’s CSR report features three articles on the important issues and prioritize our initiatives moving forward. employees supporting the Minebea Group. Specifically, the Additionally, in FY2014, we will continue to pursue the CSR articles explain how our employees are taking the initiative to goals we failed to reach in FY2013. Overall, we will strive to implement CSR as well as the company’s initiatives to enhance our CSR activities and take a forward-looking support its employees, an important stakeholder in our approach to advancing our initiatives. company. In the Hot Topics section, our report also explains Minebea Group CSR Report 2014 38 Printed on paper made with wood from Mix forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-kai” Paper from responsible sources (Forest Neighborhood Association) supports sound forest management. The Minebea Group supports efforts by Japan’s Forestry Agency to reduce CO 2 emissions through the use of Tokyo Head Office domestic forestry products. This report was produced 3-9-6 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8330, Japan using paper made from Japanese wood products. Active use of such products helps promote the maintenance of TEL: +81-3-6758-6711 Japan’s forests and contributes to raising the amount of CO 2 that these forests can absorb. FAX: +81-3-6758-6700 URL: http://www.minebea.co.jp/ Copyright 2014 Minebea Co., Ltd. Printed in Japan October 2014
