United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 Contents −− A. Introduction −− B. Human Rights 3 −− C. Labour 9 −− D. Environment 19 −− E. Anti-Corruption 29 −− F. Community Engagement, Arup International Development and Partnerships 35 Attachments −− 1. Key Speech −− 2. Global Human Rights Code of Practice −− 3. Global Harassment Code of Practice & UK Local Procedure −− 4. Global Health & Safety Policy −− 5. OHSAS 18001:2007 −− 6. UK Disciplinary Procedure −− 7. Corporate Report −− 8. Global Diversity & Inclusion Code of Practice and UK Equal Opportunities Procedure −− 9. Grievance Code of Practice −− 10. Sustainability Procurement Vision Statement −− 11. Sustainability Policy & Waste A to Z −− 12. Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure, Ethical Standards Policy and Ethical Decision Process −− 13. Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice −− 14. Financial Statements 2013 for OAPIL United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 A A: Introduction A Introduction We are an independent firm of designers, planners, engineers, consultants and technical specialists offering a broad range of professional services. Through our work, we make a positive difference in the world. We shape a better world. As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact, we We have: submit an annual Communication on Progress. −− over 11,000 people We have approached our response in relation to four key −− over 60 years areas Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption, and separate chapters have been created for −− projects completed in 170 countries each of these. In line with the UN’s criteria we have set out our response in terms of Arup’s commitment, activities and −− over 10,000 concurrent projects implementation, outcomes and progress, with supporting −− over £900m turnover documentation appended. −− trust ownership As a firm, we have in place a sustainability strategy that sets Please see Attachment 14 for our financial statements for out our sustainability and corporate social responsibility 2013. expectations from the top level. This strategy defines our approach and enables us to maintain leadership in this We view our challenge as ‘Shaping a Better World’. At the area. Our sustainability strategy is split into four areas: heart of this is a deep understanding of the issues driving our business, our people, our facilities and our external the world’s growing urban environments – from the effects relationships. of climate change to meeting the needs of a growing population. Our annual corporate report which comprises Arup Group’s performance in finance as well as sustainability, Arup is owned in trust for the benefit of our employees, shares our progress with our external stakeholders. giving us all a genuine share in our success. Each year Published annually, the report includes our performance we set aside 40% of profits to share with our staff – an against the Global Sustainability KPIs and the targets that employee’s share allocation is based on their grade and have been set going forward. length of service. Profit share is paid twice a year in addition to salary. The indicators used in this Communication on Progress are those that we include in our corporate report, along with “…our lives are inextricably mixed up with those of with additional indicators appropriate to the UNGC. our fellow human beings, and that there can be no real happiness in isolation…” Sir Ove Arup, November 1970. Introduction to Arup A better way Arup is a global company and the creative force at the heart of many of the world’s most prominent projects in the built The power to influence the future of the built environment environment. carries with it a weighty responsibility. Many of Arup’s projects leave a legacy to subsequent generations: a legacy that outlasts any one individual. With Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 1 over 10,000 projects at any one time, Arup is doing the best possible job for current and future generations. Putting Hayley Gryc, from our Arup International Development team, was highly commended in the Young Consultant of United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 B sustainability at the heart of our work is one of the ways in the Year category of the British Expertise International which we exert a positive influence on the wider world. Put Awards 2014. These awards celebrate the achievements simply, Arup people are driven to find a better way. of trail blazing UK based firms and inspiring individuals Our independent ownership structure allows the needs of who are delivering world-class projects and services right across the globe. This category celebrates young consultants B: Human Rights our clients, our commercial imperatives, and our conviction (under 35) that have demonstrated serious achievement on to influence all our decision-making, resulting in thoughtful the international stage. contributions to society. Jo da Silva, who leads our ArupID team, and Hayley Gryc Arup took part in the first Employee Ownership Day in won the Overseas Prize for the best paper published by the July 2013. Terry Hill (London) now sits on the Employee ICE journal in 2013. The paper ‘Global engineers thinking This section relates to the UNGC principles: Ownership Association Board and Alden Whittaker-Brown locally: creating kindergartens for Africa’, discusses their (London) was one of this year’s judges for the Philip work on the Sabre Kindergarten project, Ghana, and argues that to deliver the most sustainable outcomes, engineers −− Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection Baxendale Awards, which showcase and recognise the need to think locally and understand the local environment. of internationally proclaimed human rights very best of Britain’s growing sector of employee owned organisations. They will receive their award at the Institution of Civil −− Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not Engineers UK on 17 October 2014. complicit in human rights abuses Other published papers include ‘Initiating and sustaining action: Experiences building resilience to climate change in Asian cities’ by Jo da Silva and Sam Kernaghan, published in Urban Climate Volume(s) 7m in November 2013 and ‘Briefing: Visions of a resilient city, by Karol Yanez (Arup ID intern) and Sam Kernaghan published in the Proceedings of the ICE – Urban Design and Planning, Volume 167, Issue 3 in December 2013. Arup also won the Guardian Sustainable Business Awards Consultant of the Year Award in May 2014. Vince Cable MP talking to Arup employees at the first Employee Ownership Day in July 2013 In October 2013 Arup and the Sabre Charitable Trust were awarded the 2013 Third Sector Excellence Awards In 2014, Arup’s influence on the built environment goes Corporate Partnership Award for our on-going 5 year far beyond engineering. Our global, multi-disciplinary collaboration and pro bono work, and recognises our consultancy practice delivers everything from traditional contribution to building quality sustainable kindergarten management consultancy, to environmental impact school infrastructure in rural Ghana. assessment, master-planning, and energy strategy services. “Our partnership with Arup brings credibility to our Under the Cities Resilience Index project supported by kindergarten school construction programme which is fast the Rockefeller Foundation, Arup produced The City developing a reputation as being the best in Ghana.” Resilience Framework, which was launched at the World Dominic Bond, Managing Director, The Sabre Trust. Urban Forum in April 2014. The framework establishes an accessible definition of resilience and four dimensions of city resilience and twelve indicators by which resilience can be understood. Our clients range from city governments, to major corporations, international NGOs, utility companies, property developers and architects, and we have been helping local governance organisations deliver sustainable development and regeneration across England for over 60 years. Arup staff receiving the Third Sector Excellence Award 2 B Human Rights Our Mission Statement Global Human Rights Code of Practice Arup’s written Global Human Rights Code of Practice sets out the firm’s expectation and approach on human rights. It is available to all staff via the company intranet. Please see Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of “ To shape a better world” attachment 2. internationally proclaimed human rights • To enhance prosperity and quality of life Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit • To deliver real value Global code of practice Harassment : code of practice Harassment in human rights abuses • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Purpose Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at A better world is one that provides improved living work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees conditions for its inhabitants while addressing fundamental who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. environmental, social and economic concerns. Through CODE OF PRACTICE our projects, we seek to create places where people are Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. safer, healthier, enjoy greater amenity, are inspired by their Commitment Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. We have a written Global Human Rights Code of Practice. environments and find new opportunity and prosperity. By The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve Please see attachment 2. This code states that: creating sustainable and equitable environments, each and the matter. every one of us can positively influence the future of the communities where we live and work. Effective date • Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring 1 May 2001 that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in Applicability an environment where people’s lives are Our Approach All employees working for Arup worldwide. inextricably linked with those of other human beings. Our Business • A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone Key Speech accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove and humanitarian values that this embraces. A Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets out our Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the of command but as someone whose happiness high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour and prosperity is a concern of all. within the firm. The speech sets out the firm’s humanitarian attitude which “leads to the creation of an organisation Global Harassment Code of Practice Our approach to human rights covers the following areas: which is human and friendly in spite of being large and efficient...this attitude also dictates that we should act Arup believes that all employees have a right to be • Diversity honourably in our dealings with our own and other people... treated with dignity and respect while at work and when • Self esteem Humanitarianism also implies a social conscience, a wish representing the company outside work. The Global to do socially useful work, and to join hands with others Harassment Code of Practice informs employees of the type Arup supports and respects the protection of internationally • Life balance fighting for the same values.” of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees proclaimed human rights, such as United Nations Universal who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress Declaration of Human Rights, and ensures that it is not • Fair reward All employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of without fear of reprisal. We also have a local Harassment complicit in human rights abuses. • Effective workplace their induction. Please see attachment 1. and Bullying UK Policy which describes unacceptable conduct and provides additional guidance on resolving any Our founder, Sir Ove Arup, believed that our work should • Integrity incidents. Please see attachment 3. be both sensitive to the environment and also have a • Personal development social purpose. His early commitment to the principles Global Health & Safety Policy of sustainability continues to influence us today, not only • Acting honourably in the way we conduct our business, but in how we treat Arup promotes the health and safety at work of all • Social responsibility employees including temporary and contract staff, and our people and the way in which we interact with our communities and society at large. • Respect of other persons affected by our actions. The firm has set objectives to provide health and safety training, specialist advice, information instruction and supervision, as may be necessary, to personnel at all levels. The firm operates within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Please see attachment 4. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 4 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 5 Disciplinary Procedure Guidance for staff on how to resolve human rights issues In December 2013 Arup achieved Category A Supplier Our Facilities is provided within our harassment, bullying, grievance status on the Network Rail PRISM assessment method. The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive Sustainable Procurement and other Arup Management System (AMS) policies and PRISM takes into account KPIs including Safety and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and procedures and from our human resources team. The AMS Performance, Engineering Assurance and Stakeholder Examples of our activities include: performance. Disciplinary action follows for individuals is compliant with ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007 and Interface. Only five suppliers have achieved Category A, who abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, including ISO 14001: 2004. and Arup is one of only 2 designers in this category. We • Working with our catering supplier to source and the Global Human Rights Code of Practice, and for any have achieved this by increasing our score in each period purchase fair traded catering items such as tea and “actions which undermine working relationships with Training and Support since January 2013. coffee and verifying the authenticity of the stated colleagues and / or other organisations, or which may compromise our integrity as a firm and our honourable We provide training in Health and Safety, sustainability, certification. dealings with people. and diversity and gender bias awareness for leaders and Our People • Ensuring the application of the London Living Wage recruiters. Our employee support includes networks, We confirm that in the last three years we have not been the for contracts with our suppliers of on-site services Our Facilities forums, and events for female and LGB staff, and staff from subject of a formal investigation by the Equality and Human such as catering, cleaning and security. minority groups and all religions and cultures. Rights Commission or an equivalanet body, on the grounds Sustainable Procurement Reviewing occurrences of anti-competitive practice within of unlawful discrimination, and no findings have been made our supply base. Arup’s commitment to Human Rights in its procurement is Our Facilities against us. managed through the sustainable procurement plan which Sustainable Procurement Our Awards feeds into Arup’s sustainability strategies. The plan is built In the results of the 2013 Working at Arup survey 93% of on six themes which are: The sustainable procurement plan contains specific respondants agreed that “I have a good understanding of In April 2014 our Hong Kong office was presented with the categories of goods and services that are defined as Arup’s values,” with 6% neutral. Caring Company Award for the ninth consecutive year by • Environmental management priority areas through a sustainability risk assessment the Hong Kong Council of Social Service, to recognise our incorporating these themes. These priority areas are then Health and Safety continued commitment to corporate social responsibility • Supplier equality and diversity managed through individual category plans developed to and our demonstration of our caring concerns for the Our Global Sustainability Strategy defines measures of • Support of fair practices in our supply base solely focus on improving the sustainable procurement community, employees, and the environment. success which includes the health and safety of our staff of the goods and services. The category plans are used to • Ethical trading (e.g. lost time accidents). embed our sustainability requirements in our processes for • Promoting fair employment practices supplier selection, goods /services specifications, contracts and contract management. Sustainable procurement • Lost time accidents for 2013 2014: 0 per • Community benefits implementation varies depending on the particular features 100,000 employee hours. Each supplier’s sustainability ethos is a key feature within of the goods and/or services purchased within each • Accident Incident Rate for 2013 2014: 0 per Arup’s tendering process to select responsible suppliers. category. 1000 employees. Furthermore, Arup works to engage its suppliers in working • Accident Frequency Rate for 2013 2014: 0.01 together to deliver improved sustainability performance. Outcomes and Progress per 100,000 employee hours. • LA6: We have a pro-active UKMEA Health Activities and Implementation Our Business & Safety Committee which meets every three months with 21 representatives from across the Projects region and business groups. Our People • LA8: We have provided asbestos awareness Following the Rana Plaza garment factory in Dhaka Communication of Policies and Procedures collapse, Inditex asked us to develop a methodology for the training in the UK to 141 people, and E-learning rapid assessment of structural safety. Our reaction was swift on asbestos to 29 people in the last year. All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies and supported globally. We established an office in Dhaka, Arup is registered with the following construction and procedures with respect to human rights, equal and are working with local graduate engineers, sharing industry Health and Safety Accreditation schemes: CHAS, opportunities, diversity and inclusion, sustainability, Arup Hong Kong staff receivng the Caring company award our knowledge and experience, and inspecting over 750 Safecontractor (number SN5708), SMAS (number 20464) performance, and harassment. These are also made available factories. Just over one year on from Rana Plaza, almost and UDBV Verify (number 060548). to all staff via our intranet and our human resources team. 1000 factories have been inspected and safety upgrades are under way. The “Accord on Fire and Building Safety in As a humane organisation we aim for zero incidents of Bangladesh”group has been set up by clothing brands and harassment, bullying and grievance. labour unions, with Inditex as a founding member. This Accord now has over 170 members with 1500 factories, In the event of a breach of our policies or a reason for and has set up a Fire, Electrical and Structural Safety grievance, we provide guidance for informal and formal Inspectorate. A significant body of work remains, but resolution in our Local Harassment and Bullying UK we continue to influence worker conditions and the built Policy. This also identifies the roles and responsibilities of environment in Bangladesh. our managers, our human resources team, and our staff. Please see attachment 3. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 6 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 7 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 C C: Labour This section relates to the UNGC principles: −− Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining −− Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour −− Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour −− Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation C Labour Our Approach We set global and regional targets for the numbers of women on our Boards in management positions, and regional targets for the numbers of women in our overall Our Business regional workforce. We also set targets for numbers of staff in management positions to have completed diversity and Key Speech Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove inclusion training. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets out our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the UKMEA Regional Diversity Strategy Arup has a global commitment to being an ‘employer of Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour choice’ manifested in our Global Diversity Policy, Action within the firm. One of the six core principles is a “humane forced and compulsory labour organisation” which should result in satisfied members. All Plan and associated training. Diversity is championed at Group Board level by Alan Belfield who is supported by employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of their Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child induction. Please see attachment 1. Amanda Harrison, a chartered occupational psychologist and people and behaviours specialist. The vision of our labour Ove Arup also said “If we can reach a stage where each diversity steering group is “to create a work environment based on fairness, respect and merit which embraces Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in man or woman is respected for the job they do, and is doing his or her best because the atmosphere is right, because difference and enables talented people to flourish.” Our UKMEA region 2012-2014 Diversity Strategy was respect of employment and occupation they are proud of what we are and do and share in the general enthusiasm, then we are home.” formulated to deliver this vision, with a focus on in four broad areas and a systems approach to behaviour change to address any barriers at all levels of our organisation. Freedom of Association and Representation Arup’s terms and conditions are not governed by a Corporate Report 2013 collective agreement. Commitment We do not employ individuals that are younger than the legal school leaving age. Our Corporate Report is published annually. Our 2013 report is not yet available and will be submitted separately. In 1977, the founder of the firm, Sir Ove Arup, gifted Pages 10 and 11 of our 2012 corporate report relate to Arup Arup is committed to the principles listed above. We We ensure that Arup people work in an environment that is the firm to itself, creating a visionary arrangement being an employer of choice. Our people are essential to us recognise that to produce work of high quality, to maintain free from all forms of discrimination gender, race, origin, based on trusts, which are responsible for the long-term creating a sustainable business. Attracting, nurturing and our reputation for innovation and creativity and to background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, custodianship of the firm for the benefit of past, present and developing the skills of people who share our values is key understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace disability or age, and that they are valued as individuals and future employees. Membership of the trusts includes past to the Arup model. Please see attachment 7. the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse treated with dignity and respect. and current employees. As a self-owning organisation, we workforce can offer. have no external shareholders, which is fundamental to the way we are organised and how we operate. Our People Addressing gender imbalance in Arup is our priority in a We work to ensure that everyone feels that their wider diversity drive. We believe improving gender balance Equal Opportunities Procedure contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated will help us to nurture creativity and innovation, tap hidden We have developed peer communications channels and we have effective formal (‘Airtime’) and informal channels Global and regional equal opportunities procedures exist through our process and through our training and capacity for growth and improved competitiveness, and to ensure that employment practices are applied fairly and development, which encourages knowledge sharing, positively impact financial performance. The proportion of between management and staff. equally. These procedures cover: recruitment, training, intellectual growth and stimulation. women employees at all grades, and the number of women career development and promotion, pay, selection for in management positions has continued to rise annually Global Sustainability Strategy redundancy, grievance and monitoring. Every member of We are committed to the ILO’s fundamental principles and since we commenced measurements in 2008. In 2013 we launched our 2013-2015 global strategy, which Arup has a responsibility to uphold our equal opportunities rights at work including: delivers our policy and provides a framework, setting codes of practice in order to ensure that everyone with out our sustainability expectations from the top levels whom we work is treated equally and honourably. • freedom of association and the effective recognition of the firm. It defines our approach and responsibilities, The leaders have a particular responsibility to ensure of the right to collective bargaining; • the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Our Mission Statement and it enables us to maintain our position of leadership in this area. It states that “We remain committed to placing that grievances are investigated, that confidentiality is maintained and that appropriate action is taken. labour; sustainability at the heart of all that we do, helping us in our mission to shape a better world.” Responses from Conduct, Performance and Disciplinary Procedure • the effective abolition of child labour; and “ To shape a better world”. the staff sustainability survey, conducted in September 2012, were instrumental in shaping this strategy and its Our global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice • the elimination of discrimination in respect of provides guidance on the standards expected from all employment and occupation. focus on our business, our people, our facilities and our • To enhance prosperity and quality of life external relationships. These areas cover our projects, client our members. The firm takes its commitment to equal Subject to the relevant laws in the countries where we engagement, staff training, sustainable operations and opportunities very seriously. Any acts of discrimination • To deliver real value by its members will result in disciplinary action, including operate, we fully respect the right of our people to freedom community engagement. of association and representation. • To have the freedom to be creative and learn termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance with the firm’s disciplinary procedures. We aim to ensure that our people have satisfactory wages and working conditions and that there is no exploitation of labour. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 10 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 11 Harassment Procedure also set up an apprentice forum, an internal network where anonymously, to encourage further communication. The Our newly elected Diversity Board Sponsor, Dervilla apprentices can discuss issues, and exchange ideas and four areas are: Mitchell, Diversity Regional Director Martin Radley and Global and local harassment procedures are in place. Any news. Diversity Manager Vicky Evans have set up an interactive complaint of harassment will be taken seriously and the ideas page and invited ideas from all staff for inclusion in 1. Inclusive Leaders and Leadership: We will equip our necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the the 2015 2017 Regional Diversity Strategy. Flexible Benefits leaders with the skills, knowledge and framework to act matter and take appropriate action. Please see attachment 3. as role models, be accountable for their team’s adoption To retain the best staff we offer a strong remuneration and of diversity practices, and challenge the status quo. Three Grievance: Code of Practice benefits package with competitive salaries, profit share key objectives include: introducing a new appraisal payments and a flexible benefits fund to spend on the Arup believes that all its members should have the system requirement for leaders to seek feedback on their benefits that suit individuals’ requirements. Some of the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the ability to lead inclusively (measured by system revision inclusions in that package are: 25 days holiday plus public person to whom they report. In most cases employment and % of leaders with positive feedback); building on our holidays; interest free travel season ticket loan or bicycle related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this successful “inclusive leadership” workshops to provide loan; free eye-tests; private medical insurance and life and way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is training for all staff (measured by the % of staff trained) accident insurance. The flexible benefits fund can be used unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the over 450 leaders have attended this course to date; and to buy benefits that suit each employee, or can be taken as grievance procedure. For a copy of our global Grievance addressing areas of leadership development appropriate cash on top of their salary. Our occupational health service Code of Practice please see attachment 9. for staff from minority populations (measured by is an important part of our integrated health programme completion of needs analysis and demonstrable return on and helps us to minimise health risks at work and ensure Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice and UKMEA investment for attendees). fast, effective help with any health problems that affect Diversity Strategy staff well-being. These services are designed to provide a 2. My Career at Arup: We will ensure that everyone is Arup’s Global Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice more comprehensive, responsive and integrated proposition empowered to embrace diversity, that all our staff are sets out our aim to “recognise and respect each others’ which will help us to deliver on our new occupational free to express themselves fully and that we provide differences and strive to build a working environment where healthcare vision. opportunities for networking, and skills and knowledge our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed development. Three key objectives include: encourage to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client Flexible Working informal mentoring of minority group staff by suitable base”. Our Diversity Strategy is built into our operating We offer enhanced maternity and flexible working benefits role models (measured by % of female and other budget, and discussed at every Board meeting. The Sensitive Projects not Sensitive Subjects Meetings above the statutory requirements. We have a flexible minority leaders mentoring); achieve a gender balance diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported working policy that encourages anyone wishing to work with women as 40% of our workforce and 20% of Arup organised a recent series of internal meetings, open by our ethics on sustainability and human rights. Arup’s flexibly to make a request to their line manager and find a our leadership grades (measured by % achieved); and to all staff, covering the complex social, economic, and principles of diversity and inclusion extend to our clients, solution that works for them. increase our Connect networks’ activities and expand environmental impacts of engagement with projects our suppliers and all those with who we choose to work. into each sub region, with four ConnectWomen and three including: resource extraction in the Arctic, growth in fossil Our UKMEA region 2012-2014 diversity strategy sets ConnectOut events per year (measured by number of fuel use, fracking in the UK, and tackling climate change measurable diversity improvement actions for this period events). what would a “better world” look like and what can Arup which are described below. Please see attachment 8 for our Activities and Implementation do to help achieve it? These took the form of presentations Global Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice. 3. A Diverse Organisation: We will ensure that our from internal speakers with differing views, questions, and policies, processes and mode of operating is supportive debate. Young and Early Career Staff Our Business and does not hinder diversity, and that we move towards There are special UK laws to protect the employment rights Global Sustainability Strategy an organisational culture where diversity is evident in all Our People of young workers (aged 16 to 18) which Arup adheres to. we do. Two key objectives include: providing guidance Specific performance targets are established against some and encouragement on how to challenge inappropriate Communication of Policies and Procedures These concern health and safety, what jobs they can do, KPIs, as proxies against which to gauge our progress when they can work, and how many hours they work. Arup behaviour (measured by % minority staff reporting All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies relating to diversity and inclusion. We will gather data on that their leaders actively discourage inappropriate does not employ young people under the age of 16, in line these metrics on a regional level, enabling us to review and procedureswith respect to equal opportunities, diversity with legislation. behaviour); and all groups to have a diversity plan for and inclusion, sustainability, performance, and harassment. progress and adjust our actions for ongoing performance embedding and diversity (measured by % of groups with improvement. We will report our global performance These are also made available to all staff via our intranet The Early Career Group was formed in 2012 by the plans in place and with evidence). and our human resources team. publicly in our annual corporate report. For example UKMEA Board. It offers a forum to discuss issues and our global target is for 35% of staff to have received share best practice internally, and promote collaboration 4. Our Diversity Brand: We will achieve recognised In the event of a breach of our policies or a reason for sustainability training. These KPIs are cascaded to our five both in Arup and externally for early career staff. It captures benchmarks and awards, widening the recruitment pool, complaint or grievance, we provide guidance for informal regional sustainability plans. and acknowledges the ideas, opinions and concerns of those leading by example, and implementing a benchmarking and formal resolution in our local Harassment and Bullying at the early stage of their careers for betterment of the firm, process (measured by achieving a level which UK Policy. This also identifies the roles and responsibilities UKMEA Regional Diversity Strategy accurately reflects our progress and identifies areas for to make a difference from the bottom-up. of our managers, our human resources team, and our staff. This strategy has been communicated internally improvement). Apprentices through a variety of channels, including: film, intranet, Airtime internal publications, and Airtime (our staff forum for This regional strategy also sets targets for women Arup recruits apprentices every October. We have set up a communications and consultation). Staff can also send representing 40% of the regional workforce and 20% of the We have in place ‘Airtime’ a UK forum for staff dedicated apprentice area on our intranet, which includes emails to diversity@arup.com which are published regional management positions. communication and consultation. Airtime encourages us presentations and tips from previous apprentices. We have to influence our internal world, and enables us to work Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 12 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 13 together to provide an environment which addresses our office, to allow female students to interact and network with Our People personal and professional aspirations. members of staff, and gain an insight into life at Arup from discussion and presentations by female staff (November Arup does not pay below the minimum wage. Airtime meetings are held twice yearly as a forum for 2013). elected staff representatives to discuss internal changes. A We confirm that in the last three years we have not been the record of each meeting is issued to all staff in the form of an Connect Out subject of a formal investigation by the Equality and Human Airtime Broadcast. The broadcasts are intended to engage Rights Commission or an equivalanet body, on the grounds staff and show them what issues are being considered. Staff Connect Out is the firm’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and of unlawful discrimination. can raise any concerns or issues they have with their elected transgender (LGBT) network and forum, set up in 2012, and regional representative. is open to all employees (regardless of profession, position In the 2013 Working at Arup survey 93% of respondants or sex). Connect Out advocates a work environment that agreed that “I have a good understanding of Arup’s values” respects, welcomes and supports LGBT professionals, and with 6% neutral, and 88% agreed that “I feel proud to work Airtime has a number of key principles: empowers them to perform to their fullest potential and at Arup,” with 9% neutral. The results have informed board contribute to the greater goals of the firm. level, regional, and group action plans to improve our • Enable leadership and elected staff representatives to exchange information and consult on possible performance further. Connect Out is supported by the UKMEA Board diversity Apprentice Kori Hamilton meeting Deputy PM Nick Clegg changes and draft policies of significance champion, Dervilla Mitchell and the UKMEA diversity ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ • Enable ideas to be harvested from the body of the firm and inclusion steering group and managed by a committee Flexible Benefits through the staff representatives for the leadership of volunteers who meet regularly to plan activities and Our global target is that 40% of leaders will have completed initiatives. Connect Out has also set up a diversity and We made improvements to our occupational health training on diversity and inclusion, with a future aim to to consider in making decisions on issues that inclusion forum for to host employees’ ongoing discussions, service during this year by changing our provider to increase this to 100%. ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ significantly affect our professional lives which is available to staff in an open or closed (confidential Axa PP Healthcare, with a new internet based wellbeing has been attended by 450 staff (out of 974) at the beginning • Improve the flow of information between all members membership name) format. information and management self service Health Gateway, of 2014. of staff and a new UK contract with Medical Express to undertake staff medicals. ‘My Career at Arup’ Training and Support Connect Cultures We provide in house training via a full and varied This is the newest strand in our family of diversity In line with our Global Sustainability Strategy the Our Facilities proportion of women employees at all grades, and the programme of courses, with information available to all networks (set up in 2013). This network aims to celebrate staff on our employee intranet. Specific individual training and promote the benefits of cultural, ethnic and religious Sustainable Procurement Vision number of women in management positions (Grades 7-9) needs are identified as part of employees’ annual appraisals, diversity in our workplace and foster an inclusive and equal has continued to rise annually since 2008. Operating in the and then included in their development plans. In addition opportunity work environment that respects our individual traditionally male-orientated industry, in the UK 31.1% of Our sustainable procurement vision includes increasing our workforce are women (26.6% of our technical staff ) our graduates and apprentices participate in formal training differences and the value they can bring to the firm. diversity as an objective. We communicate this to new programmes to achieve professional qualifications. Courses and 17.4% of our management positions are held by women suppliers at tendering stage and have revised our sourcing in the UKMEA region. include: technical skills, diversity awareness training such Young Engineers, Apprentices and Graduates practices, supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria as ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ and Gender Bias and supplier contracts. We hold supplier conferences to Awareness Training for recruiters. Mentoring and guidance Our YES forum is an intranet network hosting young The Arup Career Progression Guide was published in July engineers’ discussions, and is used for asking questions and inform SME and BME’s about Arup’s sustainability vision 2013 in response to feedback collected via the Working at is available for all staff. In particular a successful womens’ and objectives, and to share best practice. mentoring programme pilot, completed in our midlands sharing experiences and opportunities. Arup and My Arup Journey surveys, to provide more clarity Campus, is now being rolled out across our North East UK around how promotion decisions are made, and how to offices. In October 2013 we recruited eighteen new apprentices develop and progress in grade terms. to our UK offices, and Arup Apprentices were involved Outcomes and Progress Female Leaders in two high profile events during National Apprenticeship The successful womens’ mentoring programme pilot Week: Matthew Hancock MP, Minister for Skills and completed in our midlands Campus is now being rolled out We set out annual targets for percentages of women on Enterprise joined our London apprentices for lunch. The Our Business across our North East UK offices. our Regional Board. We also hold a series of lunches with Minister listened to the apprentices talk about the range of women who show high potential, to encourage networking, projects they were involved in since joining Arup, including In August 2013, our Accessible Environments team hosted an evening client event to promote inclusive design which ‘Our Diversity Brand’ familiarity and support. their experiences of college. Kori Hamilton, a mechanical apprentice in London, was fortunate enough to attend ensures that buildings and landscapes are accessible for all Our benchmarking process was implemented in March 2013 Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg’s #MadebyApprentices users and maximises independence for disabled people. and completed by an external consultant and reported on Connect Women reception at Admiralty House. Arup currently has 36 Throughout the course of the evening guests were given in September 2013 via the ‘Diversity (gender) organisation Connect Women is our internal network, set up in 2009, for apprentices nationally and plans to recruit over 30 more to the opportunity to challenge their sensory understanding review for the UK’. improving the opportunities for women in Arup, to enable start in September 2014. through taste, sight, sound, smell and touch. The event also them to maximise their valued contribution to the firm, our included a presentation by gold winning Paralympic Athlete The results were very positive and recommendations clients and our industry. The Connect Women Network Richard Colman, who shared his experience of the London for further improvement then formed the basis of a is open to all Arup employees (regardless of profession, 2012 Games. supplement to our 2012-2014 UKMEA Diversity Strategy. position or sex) who support our aim of improving Recommendations included increasing the range of gender opportunities for women within our industry. Recent events related indicators and for these to be monitored and reported include an undergraduate networking event in our Bristol to the UKMEA Board every six months. Indicators included the proportions of women at every level of managment in the region, sub-regions and groups, and their pay levels and ratios of women recruited and promoted. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 14 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 15 Connect Women Connect Out The Early Development Scholarship (EDS) scholarship programme is promoted by our Early Career Group and We exceeded our Diversity Strategy ‘My Career at Arup’ Recent Connect Out Events include: bi-monthly networking run by our HR International Mobility Team and invites target of four ConnectWomen and three ConnectOut events opportunities, a Gay Womens’ Network panel discussion, applications from less experienced staff for overseas this year. with external panel members, to discuss being gay, assignments These give opportunities for working with balancing cultural pressures, and maintaining authenticity colleagues and clients within different cultures, developing In July 2013 Connect Women hosted a breakfast event in the workplace (October 2013), and hosting a third technical skills knowledge and understanding, and widening to explore the challenges faced by women in Science annual lecture by Beth Brooke (Global Vice Chair – Public the assignee’s network across the firm. Scholarship numbers Technology Engineering and Maths (STEM) careers, Policy), and Liz Bingham (Managing Partner for Talent – have increased from 26 in 2011 to 36 in 2013. which was attended by delegates from business, academia, UK & Ireland), of Ernst & Young on 19 June 2014. This government and STEM outreach programmes, and reported discussion, on the value of authenticity and being different Flexible Working on the BBC News website. The event’s findings then fed in the workplace, was attended by over 70 staff and guests. into a report commissioned by Peter Luff MP, to generate Our enhanced maternity and flexible working arrangements policy recommendations to government on this issue. Connect Cultures result in increasing numbers of female staff returning to work after childbirth. Between 2011-2014 98% of such Following a succesful Islam @Arup event in 2013, the women returned to work in the UKMEA region. Connect Cultures launch event, on 17 July 2014, was a presentation by and discussion with David Lammy, MP for Tottenham, on the benefits of cultural diversity and his Our Awards personal experiences relating to this topic. This year for the first time, Arup was listed in the 2014 Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For. Young Engineers, Apprentices and Graduates In 2013 our regional female graduate intake increased to In the UK, Dervilla Mitchell was appointed, by the Prime Female Leaders 42% and against a pool of 14% women, which exceeded our Minister David Cameron, to the Council for Science and Our regional workforce is currently 32 % against a regional expected 36%. The national industry standard recruitment Technology. The council’s remit is to advise the Prime target of 40%%. level is 9%. Minister on strategic science and technology policy issues that cut across the responsibilities of individual government Our regional target is for at least 20% of management In March 2014 Arup supported the UK Government Cabinet departments. positions to be (grades 7-9) to be occupied by women by the Connect Women STEM Breakfast Office’s compact initiative for raising the proportion of financial year 2014-2015, and our current level is 17.4%. female graduate engineers. We have pledged to continue Hayley Gryc was highly commended in the Young Other Connect Women events included: Consultant of the Year category of the British Expertise to offer at least 30% of our 150 Summer university student Our UKMEA region target for female Board members is placements to women, to increase our current proportion International Awards 2014. These awards celebrate the three (we currently have two). • October 2013 Chi Onwurah MP speaker/discussion achievements of trail blazing UK based firms and inspiring of new female apprentices from 10% to 30% by 2030, event for staff and guests on careers for women in the individuals who are delivering world-class projects and to recruit at least 30% females in our annual graduate A New Scientist ‘Women at Work’ article in November STEM sectors; services right across the globe. This category celebrates intake from 2014, to continue holding an Annual Female 2013 on women in engineering featured Arup graduate • November 2013 hosted book launch for The Invention Undergraduate Day in London, and to launch a Regional young consultants (under 35) that have demonstrated engineer Kirsty Burwood. of Difference; Annual Female Undergraduate Day from 2015. serious achievement on the international stage. We share case studies of senior staff who work flexibly, to • March 2014 combined celebration of International In South Africa, Georgina Smit won the Green Building We will encourage our women graduates to join the STEM encourage others to do so when this fits their circumstances. Women’s Day and five years of Connect Women, with Council of South Africa Green Star SA Leadership Awards network and actively participate as STEM Ambassadors Our March 2014 internal Bulletin featured an article on events in multiple offices; and Rising Green Star of the Year Award. in their regions. We currently have over 40 female Gigi Kam, a Senior Engineer in Hong Kong, who returned • April 2014 Power of Profile presentation. STEM Ambassadors. In addition to these five pledges we to work after a year as a full time mother, on a flexible confirmed that we will continue to encourage our female In the UK, Jenny Austin won the Ground Engineering working arrangement. engineers to speak out about their experience of being Young Geotechnical Engineer of the Year Award. a woman engineer, via our Connect Women Network, Connect Women launched Director Level Women’s our Early Career Groups and our Speaker for Schools In the UK Jess Batchelor won the Chartered Institute Journeys in December 2013. This is the intranet publication initiatives. of Ecology and Environmental Management Promising of interviews with the most senior women at Arup, Professional Award. celebrating their careers, and sharing their journeys, Arup is now one of the first choices for female graduates inspirations, and advice for future generations of women in the UK and Arup was short listed for the 2013 WISE In the UK, Florence Lam won the Lighting Design Awards at Arup. The first women to be interviewed were Erin Diversity Award which recognises ‘organisations reaching Lighting Designer of the Year Award. McConaghey, Principal and Mechanical Engineer in the women and girls from diverse backgrounds.’ Americas and Kate Hall, Director and Infrastructure Leader Connect Out was presented with a Star Performer Network in the Midlands. Nominations for further interviews have Group Award by Stonewall for 2014. The award recognises been invited via internal news feeds. the invaluable contribution that Connect Out makes to the experience of lesbian, gay and bisexual staff in their Connect Women Power of Profile Event organisation and beyond. This was presented alongside our Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 16 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 17 jump up the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index from 257th to 145th in the Top Employers list, and United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 D was a real achievement as it is not usually awarded to organisations outside the Top 100. We are the only firm in the engineering or construction industries to enter the index. Stonewall’s 2014 Working Equity Index survey is an annual benchmarking for ranking D: Environment top UK employers for LGB staff. This process identifies the organisations that are doing the most to make their workplaces, processes and experiences inclusive, for staff, clients and stakeholders alike. Arup scores increased significantly on previous figures in all categories, and we scored 100% for ‘My manager supports me as an LGB member of staff.’ This section relates to the UNGC principles: −− Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges −− Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility −− Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 18 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 D Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Our Mission Statement Sustainability is fundamental to our thinking at Arup, helping us to deliver on our mission ‘to shape a better world”. We are taking steps to minimise the carbon “ To shape a better world”. emissions associated with our operations and endeavour to prevent pollution within the scope of our activities. • To enhance prosperity and the quality of life Our offices are the second biggest contributor to Arup’s • To deliver real value carbon footprint, after travel. We are committed to taking a resource efficient, sustainable approach to the way we run • To have the freedom to be creative and learn our offices. Responsibility for our sustainability, at UKMEA regional Our Approach Board level, is held by Ian Rogers (Director). Our Foresight and Innovation team is dedicated to managing the firm’s global innovation programme, gathering and taking views Our Business on emerging technologies, and sharing these experiences with Arup offices and our clients around the world. Every Key Speech year we invest a percentage of our profits to fund this A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove research. Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the As a firm of consultants, the biggest impact we can have on high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour the environment is through our work with clients. We try to within the firm. Sir Ove Arup established the firm over 60 embed sustainability in everything that we do in the way years ago with the principles of ‘total design’ very much we run our business, our projects, and our physical impacts at the fore the integration of the design process and the on the external environment. We help our clients to face the interdependence of all the professions. He also championed challenges of sustainability by investing in our passion for the social value of innovation and the humanitarian purpose turning ideas into tangible tools and methodologies. of good design. Today we understand this as a commitment to sustainability. Please see attachment 1. We extend our influence at every level, from individual buildings and large portfolio owners to cities and Sustainability Policy Statement governments. Through our many partnerships and committee memberships we disseminate best practice Arup’s Sustainability Policy states that the firm will sustainable design. We strive to deliver better solutions for implement practices that promote economic security, social our clients and create a lasting and positive legacy for future betterment and environmental stewardship and will strive generations. for continuous improvement of performance in these areas. Please see attachment 11. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 20 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 21 Global Sustainability Strategy Our Facilities global performance publicly in our annual corporate report. ‘Out of the Blue’ For example our global target is for 35% of staff to have In 2013 we launched our 2013-2015 global strategy, which Environmental Management System (EMS) In April 2014, Arup’s Global Water Business launched received sustainability training. These KPIs are cascaded to delivers our policy and provides a framework, setting ‘Out of the Blue’, a publication that looks at the future of A strategic approach has been taken to the implementation our five regional sustainability plans. out our sustainability expectations from the top levels water and how social, environmental and economic factors of the firm. It defines our approach and responsibilities, of our EMS within Arup. Implementation occurs at can be better understood and valued. This brings together the group level, with our offices seeking certification We recognise that our firm’s largest sustainability impact and it enables us to maintain our position of leadership in senior figures and policy experts from NGOs, academic locally to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004. While and influence is through our business (our projects). Our this area. It states that “We remain committed to placing institutions, agencies, businesses and Arup itself, with each all of the environmental impacts of our activities require priority for 2013-15 is to deliver projects that not only meet sustainability at the heart of all that we do, helping us in contributing a piece on new thinking or practice. management, the assessment of each activity and local regulations, but achieve more sustainable outcomes, in our mission to shape a better world.” Responses from consequent impact is used as a guide to prioritise action, line with client expectations and local objectives wherever the staff sustainability survey, conducted in September via risk assessments, through the EMS. These assessments we work. 2012, were instrumental in shaping this strategy and its focus on our business, our people, our facilities and our results in significance ratings, calculated by considering the external relationships. These areas cover our projects, client likelihood, severity and legal implications. Existing Buildings engagement, staff training, sustainable operations and With 40% of the UK’s energy usage and 50% of GHG community engagement. Audits and Reviews of Sustainability Performance emissions being attributed to existing buildings, Arup is We carry out annual internal system audits, regular project committed to working to reduce the impact of these assets UKMEA Regional Sustainability Plan audits and an annual management review to ensure on their local communities. We have extensive experience compliance with our internal processes and management of of assisting the property sector to embrace sustainability This plan implements the global strategy within the our environmental aspects. Our environmental audit process and transform their property portfolios. This includes the UKMEA region, identifies roles and responsibilities, contributes to ongoing monitoring and improvement of retrofitting of existing assets and development of strategies defines areas of focus for Ian Rogers, UKMEA Director of environmentally sustainable performance. to reduce energy use and change behaviours. We have Sustainability to report bi-monthly to the UKMEA Board. produced existing buildings survival strategy guides Sustainable Procurement Vision to help owners to plan for the future of their buildings. Arup Management System (AMS) These guides set out and explain research on market and The Arup Management Systems embraces Health and Arup’s Sustainable Procurement Vision aims to improve legislative challenges, strategies for revitalising assets, Safety, Quality and Environmental Management. This the environmental, social and ethical performance of its initiatives and ideas for prioritising actions, and case provides the procedures, processes, and documentation to business by addressing these areas in the procurement of its studies. complete our projects. The AMS has achieved a “single goods and services. We communicate this to new suppliers Helping Cities Tackle Climate Change C40 certificate” to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 at tendering stage and have revised our sourcing practices, Asset MAP supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria and supplier Following from our previous input, the C40 Cities Climate covering all UK offices. The AMS captures project Leadership Group (C40) and Arup have released a new contracts. Please see attachment 10. Our building retrofitting services are underpinned by our sustainability objectives and is used to monitor and record study highlighting how mega-cities around the globe are proprietary software tool Asset MAP, which brings together achievements and outstanding actions. tackling climate change. The report, Climate Action in architectural, engineering and financial risk analysis for us Megacities Volume 2.0 (CAM 2.0), was published on 5 Our People Activities and Implementation to analyse the economic and environmental improvement potential of a client’s building or property portfolio. This February at the C40 Mayors Summit in Johannesburg, helps us to advise clients on where best to focus any South Africa. Drawing on our practical experience of SusNet designing and delivering city-scale climate action projects Our Business physical interventions. SusNet is Arup’s intranet site for sustainability skills, and our knowledge of how cities function, we designed guidelines, tools and technologies. The site is an ‘umbrella’ Global Sustainability Strategy the original survey and analysed one of the largest datasets or gateway for all skills in Arup that relate to sustainability. on city action ever captured. The research is significant It provides access to information across a range of other This strategy responds to staff feedback and includes because it quantifies what is being done and identifies sites to cover all aspects of sustainability at a business and our commitment to bring our sustainability approach what works. It can therefore assist every city worldwide project level. It also has a forum where people can ask and expertise to our projects, across all regions and all to build a road map of actions that make a meaningful sustainability / environmental questions and quickly get a disciplines, to ultimately ‘shape a better world,’ develop difference. response from an expert within Arup. our collaborations with clients for more sustainable design solutions, review and improve access to relevant Control of Waste in our Projects’ Environments OvaGreen sustainability staff training, continue to improve Arup facilities and operations’ resource-efficiency, embodying We develop our designs for built assets with an awareness OvaGreen is a growing global network of environmental our vision and values, and enabling us to ‘walk the talk,’ of the need to reduce construction-phase site generated volunteers in Arup’s offices. They coordinate environmental and strengthen involvement in all communities in which we waste though the use of standard sizes and lengths of initiatives within our offices, including: campaigns, climate operate. materials, and through encouraging the use of off-site week events, recycling waste, reducing energy, reviewing pre-fabrication of elements. For example in the case of the our purchase of products and improving our use of Specific performance targets are established against some MEP works this may include plantrooms, pumpsets, risers, transport. KPIs, as proxies against which to gauge our progress. toilets, etc. Our designs reference statutory and best practice We will gather data on these metrics on a regional level, requirements, and achieve credits within BREEAM, LEED® enabling us to review progress and adjust our actions for or other green building rating systems. ongoing performance improvement. We will report our Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 22 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 23 Working Collaboratively to Harness Water ASPIRE (A Sustainability Poverty and Infrastructure Our Facilities Routine for Evaluation) As part of our sponsorship of the Manchester International Sustainable Office Environments Festival, we invited clients and opinion formers to discuss We created this software based tool to provide organisations with an analytical framework that comprehensively We have been monitoring and reporting our carbon footprint the challenges and benefits of working collaboratively to since 2007. Our greatest source of carbon emissions is harness water in our built and natural environment. The addresses three ‘pillars’ of sustainability, (environment, society, economics) and uniquely recognises institutions as business travel, followed closely by emissions from indirect Design with Water breakfast networking event on 17 July electricity generation to power our facilities. To ensure a 2013 is the first in a series, and was addressed by: a fourth critical dimension, in developing country contexts. It uses over 90 detailed indicators to ensure that users ask safe and healthy workplace for our staff, we will maintain the right questions and consider all the critical issues. It is high standards of health and safety at our own offices, and • Jessica Bowles, Head of Policy for Manchester City require our clients to do likewise to ensure the protection of Council built on the SPeAR® platform, and has been developed by Arup International Development in collaboration with staff and their wellbeing while working on site. • UK Environment Agency Flood Risk Manager Sally Engineers Against Poverty. This tool is currently being used Sudworth; and to assess the sustainability of a rural development planning Arup promotes multiple sustainability initiatives within the and implementation project for a remote village in the Pocket Habitat installed on a central London office roof top office environment focusing on reuse, recycling, energy • Iain Taylor, Partnerships Director for Peel Holdings, consumption and behavioural change. We encourage our West Region of Ghana. This assessment is undertaken in one of the leading infrastructure, transport and real staff to consider their environmental impact and how we partnership with Kounkey Design Initiative (KDI). estate companies in the UK Our People can work together sustainably and set global and regional BREEAM and LEED Assessment/Rating Methods for ® Communication of Policies and Procedures targets to improve our facilities’ sustainability performance. Sustainable Buildings Our regional sustainability plan target is that 100% of All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies our resource data will be monitored via Credit 360. Our These are most globally recognised methods of assessment and procedures with respect to sustainability. These are sustainable procurement vision outlines our approach to for buildings’ sustainability. Arup currently has 49 trained also made available to all staff via our intranet and our procuring products and services. BREEAM assessors who have assessed over 100 Arup environmental and sustainability teams. projects in the UK to date, including 16 in-use building We work closely with first-tier suppliers and encourage assessments. We also have over 140 projects certified or Training them to adopt sustainable behaviour. We require them to pre-certified and over 180 projects registered through the have their own environmental policies and targets, thereby USGBC’s LEED® Green Building Rating System around Arup University sustainability E-learning modules are available to all staff, providing an excellent basis for the influencing overall supply chain performance. Examples the globe. We have over 250 LEED® assessors, with new include: minimising deliveries of stationary and other additions regularly, in nearly every discipline of the firm. understanding of key sustainability topics relevant to the built environment. There is also a range of sustainabilitymaterials, and purchasing uniforms made from recycled related courses, workshops and talks available to staff, from materials. By embedding sustainability into procurement SPeAR® Sustainable Project Appraisal Routine strategies, supplier selection processes, contracts, the introductory to the advanced level. Our global target is Our SPeAR® software based tool relates to environmental for 35% of staff to have received sustainability training. specifications and KPIs for suppliers, Arup has achieved rating tools including LEED®, BREEAM and CEEQUAL, consistent results. Please see attachment 10. Examples of and was developed by Arup’s software and sustainability sustainable initiatives are given below. Forums experts to help us to support clients’ sustainability goals. The tool encompasses quantitative and qualitative appraisal, In addition to training we encourage regular sharing of Office Energy Use and Supply based on 23 core indicators. This is presented graphically CEEQUAL the Sustainability Assessment, Rating and sustainability best practice across offices and projects. We have a number of sustainability related intranet based Arup now purchases 99% renewable, Climate Change using a traffic light type system to indicate performance Award Scheme for Civil Engineering Levy (CCL) exempt electricity, where we are responsible against key themes. A tabulated summary of the input staff communication forums for the sharing of ideas and Arup is a CEEQUAL Project Partner, is a member of the knowledge including: Ecology, Environmental, Food and for the supply. Energy use data for our two largest London data is also generated, ensuring that the process is robust offices is made available to staff via our intranet and and auditable. It can assist with improving the social, Technical Advisory Group, and has been involved with Agriculture, Landscaping and Green Infrastructure, Living each stage in the design development of CEEQUAL. Roofs, and OvaGreen. EPC certificates displayed in foyers. We are improving economical and environmental performance of projects, the management, control and efficiency of our office expedite planning approvals, and reduce project risks and We have two accredited verifiers and 27 assessors. We routinely achieve ‘Excellent’ awards, and have a running energy use, and looking at the introduction of “continuous costs. SPeAR® output is available in a range of languages commissioning” and energy-led maintenance to drive including Chinese, German, Italian, Polish and Spanish. total of 25 awards at interim and final stages, scoring in the Very Good and Excellent categories. These include, most on-going improvement. Completed improvements include recently, Bristol Water’s proposed 9,400 mega-litre Cheddar energy savings from: rescheduling AHU plant run times, Reservoir Two project. upgrading boiler controls, and the replacement of dichroic bulbs with LEDs. This has saved 156 tCO2 p/a. Additional Pocket Habitat planned improvements include further plant scheduling and balancing and upgrading lighting zoning and controls, to Pocket Habitat is a unique modular vegetation system for save a further 365 tCO2 p/a. promoting biodiversity on roofs or brownfield areas. Each pocket is an independent unit made from recycled carpet waste, containing mixed recycled substrates and wildflower seed. They are manufactured at Remploy who ‘equip disabled people with the skills and confidence they need to build enduring careers.’ Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 24 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 25 Video Conferencing Other set sustainability objectives, so we are still below our Our Business Awards global target of 50% for projects with fees of £150,000 or Since 2001, we have invested in, and made extensive Further environmentally responsible initiatives include Arup won the Consultancy of the Year Award at the more. We will continue to work on this area, focusing on use of video conferencing and teleconferencing. This using all FSC sourced materials for furniture, and procuring Guardian Sustainable Business Awards in April 2014. The the largest projects where our influence is usually the most enables effective communication while reducing the need fair trade or fairer trade food items. We work with all our award acknowledges our consultancy work and its ability significant. for excessive travel. Our global use of desktop video suppliers, particularly in catering, to reduce packaging. to affect ‘real-life’ change with projects such as C40 Cities, conference calls (via Microsoft Lync) continues to increase An example is our fruit suppliers who now deliver in reThe Low Carbon Routemap and carbon footprinting Global Climate Change Vulnerability Assessment, Australia. and we predict that desktop VC will be the main driver for used plastic crates rather than cardboard boxes and paper Fund health grants for the United Nations Development face to face meetings in the future, alongside our use of wrapping. We also employ rainwater harvesting in our We have been engaged by the Northern Alliance for Programme (UNDP). The judges praised our work for its meeting room VC. London offices. Greenhouse Action (an alliance of nine councils spanning “sheer scale and data collection as well as great partnering the northern metropolitan region of Melbourne) to prepare and collaborations.” This is a tremendous result as we strive Follow You Printing In the UK, we introduced a Green Car scheme in July 2014, an Integrated Regional Climate Change Vulnerability to lead new thinking in our wider sustainability agenda. where each employee can obtain a new, low-emission Assessment. This project builds on our previous carbon This thinking is reflected in the way we approach our The installation of print management software in the UK vehicle to replace their older, more polluting model. mitigation strategy Towards Zero Net Emissions in 2009 projects and is demonstrated in our drive to create solutions continues to reduce wasted prints by automatically deleting and our 50 Year Infrastructure Strategy for Melbourne’s that leave a legacy for the future. Arup shares this accolade those not collected within 24 hours. Our External Relationships North. The preparation of the assessment will involve with Impactt, a consultancy specialising in human rights, working with councils and relevant key government labour standards, gender and international development. Night Watchman Shaping the Sustainability Agenda agencies. This will build understanding and develop climate This power management solution controls power and shuts All around the world, Arup people are actively involved change adaptation responses to the key vulnerabilities down connected desktop computers at a scheduled time, in external organisations that promote and progress for the region from a human services, infrastructure and preventing any computers still on after staff have left from sustainability. This is a two way activity, as they are also planning, natural ecosystems, industry and emergency consuming power overnight. able to bring knowledge back into the firm, ensuring we are management perspective. at the forefront of the latest thinking on sustainability. For Bicycle Facilities example, this January David Singleton, Global Planning Our People Arup has cycle storage with cyclist changing rooms and Leader, presented to 35 Board members by video link from We have also won British Company of the Year Award Training showers at all main offices in London. There is an active Tata’s main operating companies (Jaguar Land Rover, Taj at the 2014 British Israeli Business Awards for our work employee community of cyclists called BUG (Bicycle Hotels, Tata Steel and Tata Chemicals) for a program run by This year, 16.7% of staff have received relevant promoting water innovation and technology. In March 2014, User Group). Since 2008 Arup has offered a cycle-to-work the University of Cambridge Programme for Sustainability sustainability training. we signed a deal with the Israeli State Water Company, scheme in the UK, to encourage employees to enter a tax Leadership. David was invited to share and discuss how Mekorot, to explore new opportunities for innovation in the efficient bicycle rental agreement for cycling to work. sustainability is embedded at Arup – our history and clientOur Facilities field of water and wastewater treatment around the globe. We have just passed our 1000th cycle-to-work enrolment. focused approach and the challenges faced by us to date We are working on two of the largest desalination projects and in the future. He concluded by highlighting how Tata Sustainable Offices in the world with IDE, another Israeli Company. We are Cyclescheme use the Arup scheme as an example of a successful long-running scheme with continually high Group can best address sustainability across their own 100% of Arup UKMEA region staff are working in offices also working with several Israeli start-ups to try and bring engagement. group businesses from policy to accountability. with an EMS certified to IS014001. This exceeds our their technologies to Britain, with the support of UK Israel original global target of 95%. Our annual UVDB Verify Tech Hub at the British Embassy in Tel Aviv. Stationery From “Green / Core” Products Management System Evaluation, by Achilles Information Arup has a core list of stationary and office supplies Outcomes and Progress Ltd, scored 91.5% for Health & Safety, 94.9% for Environment and 96.9% for Quality in July 2014. The Our Project Awards from recycled, environmentally friendly and sustainable Our The Crystal, Queen Victoria Dock, London project Onsite Assessment scores for July 2014 were 92.2% for materials, which encourages the business to identify with Our Business Health and Safety, 96.4% for Environment and 100% for won the British Council for Offices National Innovation the economic and environmental sustainability pillars. 87% Award, the LEAF Awards Best Sustainable Development Corporate Report Quality. Award Special Commendation and the Royal Institution of of our printing paper is from a Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified source. Our Corporate Report is published annually. Our 2013 Chartered Surveyors London Design and Innovation Award. This year we have replaced our three main London This is the first building in the world to achieve the highest report is not yet available and will be submitted separately. computer system servers with a single virtual server, saving Office Waste and Recycling Within our 2012 Corporate Report, we celebrate some level accreditation, both LEED Platinum and BREEAM on the energy for their power and their cooling. Outstanding. A highlight of the BREEAM assessment of the achievements from turning thought leadership on Our offices follow the principles of waste prevention, process was the UK Building Research Establishment’s sustainability into action, including a chart reporting on our reduction, re-use, recycling,/composting and energy Our global target total paper consumption per full time (BRE) decision to award The Crystal an ‘innovation’ performance against the KPIs in our Global Sustainability recovery. We apply waste segregation and do not dispose employee is a reduction of 15% compared to 2011-2012 credit. This was granted in recognition of Arup’s design of Strategy collated from all our regions. Where we measured of waste to landfill. We work with BPR who convert our paper use, by the financial year 2014 -2015. In the UKMEA an on-site blackwater treatment system for the building. it, we have included historical data to demonstrate our trend waste to energy. We have a well publicised and organised region paper consumption per full time employee per year BREEAM innovation credits are rare and are reserved for in performance. Please see attachment 7. waste policy and colour coded containers clearly identify was reduced by 17% to 36kg. significant advances in sustainable building design. the correct waste locations for our office staff. Please see attachment 11. Many items are sorted in our recycling room Sustainability Objectives Our global target greenhouse gas emissions target is a Our Eastside City Park, Birmingham, West Midlands, for reuse, including PCs and steel toe capped boots (reused In accordance with our global sustainability Strategy the maximum of 3.0t CO2 per employee per year by the project won the British Construction Industry Awards in Africa), and other items which are donated to charities. proportion of our projects setting sustainability objectives financial year 2014 -2015. The 2012-2013 emissions were Regeneration Award, the Entente Florale Europe We are currently trialling food composting, aiming to has been steadily increasing since 2007 when we began 3.4t CO2. Outstanding Public Green Space Award, the Institution of roll this out across our offices. Our office waste has been measuring it. In 2012-2013, 24.3% of our global projects reduced by 15% since 2010/11. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 26 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 27 Civil Engineers West Midlands Chairman’s Award, and Sustainability Award, and the Royal Institute of British The firm’s ambition to engage with organisations that share our values and ambition to promote sustainability leadership United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 E Architects Awards National Award and West Midlands means Arup has worked closely with partners such as the Building of the Year Award. World Economic Forum to highlight the multi-billion dollar market potential for energy-efficient buildings. This is a Our Gateway to the Valleys, Bridgend, United Kingdom project won the BREEAM Awards Education Award. vital contribution as buildings are responsible for 40% of the world’s energy consumption and generate 40% of all E: Anti Corruption carbon emissions. As such, retrofitting buildings to improve Our London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, United their energy efficiency presents a tremendous opportunity to Kingdom Parklands and Public Realm project won the reduce costs and impact on the environment. CEEQUAL Awards Outstanding Achievement Award Landscape Award, and many other awards. Another example of cooperation in this area is the joint venture created between Arup and the Japanese group, This section relates to the UNGC principles: Our People Awards Mitsui, aimed at sparking a wave of green investment around the globe. Arup and Mitsui signed a deal to form At the World Green Building Council annual congress in MBK Arup Sustainable Projects in 2011 with the aim of −− Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all Cape Town, Arup employees Karim Elgendy and Georgina getting low carbon investments off the ground. its forms, including extortion and bribery Smit both won awards. Karim won the 2013 David Gottfried Global Green Building Entrepreneurship Award. This award recognises individuals whose contribution to the global green building movement has been shown to be unique, innovative and entrepreneurial, for founding the Carbon initiative to raise awareness of the green building movement in the Middle East and shape the way cities in the region develop sustainably. Georgina won the Green Building Council of South Africa’s Rising Green Star Award. This recognises individuals within South Africa who have a proven track record in the green building movement. Nominees were judged on how they have shared green initiatives and influenced others to make a change. Mark Watts (London) also delivered a key note speech at the event on the politics of delivering green objectives in cities. Our External Relationships Sustainability organisations and institutions: Arup is: • a founding member of the UK Green Building Council, • a founding member of the Australian Green Infrastructure Council, and • a founding member of the the UK Institute of Sustainability. • a member of the US Green Building Council (Gold level), • a member of the Green Building Council of Australia • a member of the Russian Green Building Council (Platinum level), • a sponsor of the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management, and • an affiliate of the Chartered Institution of Wastes Management. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 28 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 E Anti Corruption Working Globally As an international consultancy the anti-bribery laws of Making Ethical Decisions Making ethical decisions can be difficult and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical decision making process. many jurisdictions apply to our business. On this basis we Feelings Reputation 2 4 have developed extensive policies/code of practice and procedures to ensure compliance. Consider Effects Options 1 3 5 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Political Donations and Financial Inducements Consider the Problem: Consider how your intended Consider how those affected Consider what others Consider the options for raising forms, including extortion and bribery • Is it legal? action will make you feel: will feel: will think: a concern: • Does it violate our company • Relief, regret or remorse? • Duped, used, angry, annoyed • What would your family, • What is the best method for policies or Code? • If you have to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? Arup does not make political donations. Arup will not, in • Is it consistent with our values? yourself you are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have • Is it a question of being fair? are probably wrong • That you are the only one reading about it in the paper? or will you need? to benefit? any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or This simple 5 step approach can be applied to any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically. transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage. Commitment Our Mission Statement Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs “ To shape a better world”. Ethical Standards Policy Anti Corruption Links Mission clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. Our UK intranet provides guidance on the Bribery Act 2010 To shape a better world Objectives Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice for the Infrastructure Sector from the UK Anti Corruption To deliver this, the firm will: • commit to acting honourably and with integrity in all its business dealings; • ensure that no financial or other inducements to gain or retain work are offered • To enhance prosperity and the quality of life or accepted by or on behalf of Arup; • recognise the duty of confidentiality in all our client relationships and give it Forum. the highest importance; • identify and address appropriately any potential conflicts of interest; • endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in • To deliver real value “All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional which we operate; and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In Anti-Bribery and Due Diligence Check List • provide such training, advice, information as may be necessary to personnel • To have the freedom to be creative and learn at all levels; support of this, the firm’s role shall, wherever practicable, • integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions; and • provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its Our intranet area includes guidance on issues to consider • comply with all legal and other applicable requirements of the countries in disciplinary procedure.” Please see attachment 13. when working on a project including anti-corruption Our Approach which we work; • justify the trust of our clients by giving their interests first priority in the work we do for them; • take steps to see that all personnel are aware of, and follow the Ethics Code of Practice; provisions in our contract terms, the appointment of • appoint a Group Board Director with responsibility for ethical business Practices; • where appropriate undertake due diligence of our clients, joint venture partners, Ethical Standards Policy partners or sub-consultants Our Business agents and other advisors; This sets our ethical objectives as a firm (as listed • participate in appropriate industry forums to promote industry best practice; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business and enhance our reputation in the market. previously under the commitment heading). Please see Our People Key Speech attachment 12. Communication of our Policy, Code and Procedure ............................................................... Robert Care A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup Group Ethics Director www.arup.com Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our core Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure The Arup Ethical Standards Policy and Ethics Code of values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the highPractice is communicated to all members of staff, is freely Last reviewed January 2012 level framework that guides appropriate behaviour within This sets out our ethical values and is intended to provide available via our employee intranet and is referred to in the firm. One of the six core principles is “straight and guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that the Ethical Standards training that all staff are required to honorable dealings”. these values, principles and standards are being met across complete. a range of areas including: financial inducements, third Our written Ethical Standards Policy, defines our core Our global codes of practice support this and appropriate parties, gifts and entertainment, competition, confidentiality, objectives as to: policy level statements are supported by local procedures as conduct and performance at work, client activity, conflict necessary. All employees receive a copy of the key speech of interest, political contributions and asking questions and −− commit to acting honourably and with integrity in raising concerns. We believe that our Ethical Standards all its business dealings as part of their induction. Please see attachment 1. Policy and Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure are in −− ensure that no financial or other inducements to line with the Bribery Act 2010 and the US foreign Corrupt Ovacode gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or Practices Act 1977 and other relevant legislation. Please see on behalf of Arup Ovacode sets our conditions of employment for all staff. attachment 12. This reinforces our Global Conduct and Performance Code −− endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global of Practice and Ethical Standards Policy. Ethics Guidance on Making Ethical Decisions business in the market in which we operate This gives a five step process to assist staff with making −− provide such training, advice, information as may Member of Anti-Corruption Organisations ethical decisions. Please see attachment 12. be necessary to personnel at all levels Arup are members of the World Economic Forum – −− integrate ethical considerations into our design and Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and the UK business decisions Anti-Corruption Forum. Example Ethics Intranet Page −− provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. We are committed to maintain our record of zero incidents of bribery and corruption. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 30 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 31 Partners and Sub consultants separately located groups, led by separate project directors, and operating effectively as separate organisations. Arup is committed to undertaking appropriate due diligence on all agents and joint venture partners, and where appropriate, sub consultants that we work with. The Arup Our People standard form sub-consultancy agreements require our Communication of Policies and Procedures sub-consultants to comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption . All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies they must have and maintain in place, throughout the term and procedureswith respect to ethics and anti-corruption. of their appointment, their own policies and procedures to These are also made available to all staff via our intranet ensure compliance. This includes requirements for them and our human resources team. to have anti-corruption programmes, client, project and partner ownership and funding arrangements. The complete In the event of a breach of our policies, or a reason for document forms the basis of risk assessments and covers complaint, we provide guidance for resolution in our Global the country, client, project, partners, and agents associated Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure (see below). Dervilla Mitchell with any proposed project. Global Ethics Champion Communications Channels For Reporting Concerns Disciplinary Procedure Arup has a dedicated intranet area for ethics, which is kept The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive up to date with the latest relevant policies and procedures. and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. Disciplinary action follows for individuals Our Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure includes who abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, including guidance for staff on how to raise queries and concerns. the Ethical Standards Policy, and for any “actions which Arup commits to investigate all potential breaches of this undermine working relationships with colleagues and / or policy, that are reported in good faith, responsibly. This other organisations or which may compromise our integrity includes the following: “If you have a concern or suspect as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Please that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you see attachment 6. have a duty to report these concerns.” Reporting can be undertaken anonymously, although staff are encouraged Activities and Implementation to identify themselves to enable a full investigation. All questions or reported suspected breaches can be directed through the staff member’s Group Leader in the first Our Business instance, but where this is not possible or appropriate, Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure employees may choose to contact Dervilla Mitchell, the nominated member of the Arup Group Board. As previously mentioned, this procedure provides practical Alain Marcetteau UKMEA Regional Ethics Champion Outcomes and Progress guidance on acceptable behaviour across a range of areas. This also identifies the roles and responsibilities of our managers, our human resources team, and our staff. We confirm that in the last three years we have not been the Conflicts of Interest subject of a formal investigation by the Equality and Human Global Board Representative / Champions: Rights Commission or an equivalent body, on the grounds Arup’s philosophy is based on acting honourably in our of unlawful discrimination. dealings with our own and other people. Our Ethical Dervilla Mitchell, Group Board Director, is the firm’s global Training and Development Standards Policy addresses the responsibility of each of champion responsible for ethical business practices. She is The published UKMEA region’s results from the 2013 our employees with regard to the fiduciary duties they owe. supported by regional champions and works with them and All staff are required to complete an Ethical Standards e-learning module which addresses the requirements of the global Arup staff survey attracted the highest ever response, In the event where a potential conflict might arise, we will others to create and approve policies and procedures and to and showed that 88% of respondents agree that “I feel immediately bring the matter to the attention of our client continue to promote communications and education in this Bribery Act 2010. This underlines the importance attached to high standards in all our business activities. proud to work for Arup” and 84% of respondents agree that with a view to agreeing the most appropriate course of area. Alain Marcetteau, UKMEA Regional Board Director “I would recommend Arup as a place to work.” action to take. The type of conflict most likely to arise in the and COO, is the UKMEA regional champion responsible context of our activities is where we may have more than for ethical business practices. Arup has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings, or one role on the same project for different clients. We have other events related to bribery or corruption. There are zero procedures in place for identifying all job opportunities offences for corruption or bribery in the firm. through job application forms to prevent any conflict which may arise inadvertently. The size and organisation of the The responsibility for each project is typically held by firm means that, where this is agreed with the client, we the Project Director, who reports financial performance are well used to dealing with situations relating to more to the local Arup Group Leader for review, via the Arup than one involvement on a project in a manner which does financial management system, Ovaview. All groups report not compromise the duty of confidentiality we owe. This their financial performance to their region and ultimately includes putting into place effective information barriers between project teams, which ensure that the teams are from Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 32 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 33 to the Arup Group Board. Our internal financial accounting is managed by our accounts department, with input from finance and administration. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 F Our company financial accounts are subjected to external audit every year. These audits are to confirm that the financial reporting framework that has been applied in F: Community Engagement, Arup International their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Development and Partnerships Accepted Accounting Practice).This audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. Partnerships, Community Engagement and Arup International Development 100% of new employees received the key speech, setting out our guiding values and principles, including our commitment to honourable dealings which we expect our people to follow. It is compulsory for all staff to complete the E-learning ethics training course. The published results of the 2013 global Arup staff survey attracted the highest ever response and showed that 84% of respondents agree that “Arup is ethical in its business dealings,”. with 15% neutral. The survey results have informed board level, regional, and group action plans to improve our performance further. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 34 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Community Engagement, Arup International Our Business Development and Partnerships Community Engagement Arup engages with communities around the globe in a vast array of direct and indirect initiatives. Our open approach encourages collaboration between our staff, Arup fulfils this commitment to social usefulness via: clients and partners, as well as community stakeholders. • Corporate Giving, Pro-bono Work and Our Social Contribution • Giving – corporate donations through our charitable trust and regional community engagement committees Commitment Global Sustainability Strategy • Doing – funding staff to provide technical assistance Our 2013-2015 strategy, which delivers our Sustainability Policy and provides a framework for achieving our to humanitarian and development organisations The Arup Cause Our founder, Ove Arup, established the firm to be ‘an sustainability targets, includes our commitment to continue around the world through the Arup Cause, strategic organisation which is human and friendly’ and one that partnerships or local charities The Arup Cause was initiated in 2006 to mark our 60th carries with it ‘a wish to do socially useful work and to join to our external relationships and community engagement. Anniversary. This global initiative exists to reward, hands with others fighting for the same values’. • Developing – encouraging staff to undertake encourage and leverage staff abilities and interest in “We will continue to maintain our existing partnerships networking and shared learning activities on undertaking community centred and educational activities. and seek new ones which promote sustainability leadership, charitable and community issues under the umbrella Our Mission Statement particularly related to the built environment... We will of Arup’s Community Engagement Skills Network. This typically involves providing technical assistance to humanitarian and development organisations; enhancing continue to promote positive community engagement in • We also run a workplace giving scheme which their capacity to reduce suffering and improve people’s each of our locations across the world.” enables employees to sacrifice part of their salary lives. “ To shape a better world”. The Arup Group has committed to donate at least 1% of each month as a charitable donation (Arup directly meets the cost of the payroll agent fees). Over the past eight years, it supported 60 projects focused the prior year’s management account profits each year to on water and shelter, which have contributed to improving charitable causes, by the end of the financial year 2014 We have a Community Engagement Programme, which • To enhance prosperity and the quality of life the lives of tens of thousands of people. -2015. is managed by our Global Community Engagement • To deliver real value Committee, chaired by Director Martin Ansley-Young Strategic Arup Cause partnerships have been set up with Arup has a long history of community engagement, Regional Community Engagement Committees. The CESN. • To have the freedom to be creative and learn charities such as WaterAid to provide technical support encompassing both charitable donations and pro-bono Sarah Bowden, Associate Director, is our Skill Leader for for a country program in Nicaragua. And across the engagement. The focus of our community engagement Community Engagement. firm, sponsored bake sales, walks, cycle rides, and even activities are strongly related to the sustainability agenda, moustache-growing have all featured in Arup offices Our Approach with themes such as water (environmental resources) and Sarah meets with other regional leaders to promote best as fundraising efforts have connected our people with shelter (social wellbeing). practice, and to set the strategic direction for all our communities in need around the world. charitable giving, strategic partnerships, fundraising and Our Business Separate from charitable donations and pro bono work, directing funds, and volunteering time to projects. Sarah Key Speech Arup International Development (ArupID) is a not-forsays “ Arup donates to charitable causes ... but we believe profit business within Arup, working in partnership with we can make an even bigger impact by donating our A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove humanitarian and development organisations. ArupID time and skills.” Our community engagement and Arup Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets out our core strengthens the overall impact of the firm’s work, helping to International Development teams have collaborated on the values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the highdeliver strategic objectives and outcomes at organisational, Sabre Schools Ghana project. level framework that guides appropriate behaviour within programme or project level. the firm. One of the six core principles that the speech Our intranet Community Engagement Skills Network identifies is “social usefulness” The speech also describes the ideal of ‘Total Architecture’ as our “collaboration with Activities and Implementation Forum is used to communicate internally about opportunities and activities, for capacity building in our other like minded firms... in the quest for excellence.” offices in developing countries, and to share knowledge, Arup contributes to social purpose by completing projects news and enthusiasm. Our global codes of practice support this and appropriate which “shape a better world.” policy level statements are supported by local procedures as necessary. All employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of their induction. Please see attachment 1. Arup staff fundraising for WaterAid Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 36 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 37 Our People Arup International Development (Arup ID) Partnerships and Collaborations Outcomes and Progress Arup International Development Example Projects Secondments The Arup ID team works across a range of sectors and often Our Business We work closely with our clients in assigning each in challenging geographies, to help combat poverty and secondment to identify the appropriate specialists for each Arup’s annual charitable donations and pro-bono vulnerability, to increase wellbeing and resilience in the role. Our seconded staff provide an essential role on these engagement donations have increased since 2008. Against developing world. projects. They integrate within client teams, while drawing the Arup global target of 1% of profit. In 2013 the UKMEA on their Arup colleagues’ experience and specialisms. Our region’s charitable donations totalled £430,000 with pro experience has shown that secondments are very successful Arup ID works with: bono engagement of £76,000 (£ equivalent staff cost). This on both sides providing our staff with an insight into other includes £24,000 for administering community engagement organisations while giving our clients access to very highly NGOs relationahips and excludes over 900 unpaid hours. qualified and capable individuals with experience and skills that the client may not have. We often find that Arup staff • CARE In addition UKMEA staff added significantly to this total, ‘shine’ in their secondments and clients tend to want to • Disaster Emergency Committee with more than 3,400 unpaid hours of volunteering and hang on to them as long as they can! individual fundraising projects. • Habitat for Humanity Secondments are also useful in the training of our engineers. We have undertaken reciprocal secondments • International Water and Sanitation Centre (IRC) Individual staff also gave time for mentoring in schools, Bridges to Prosperity (B2P) Project, Western Rwanda with contractors, to develop employees’ site experience and lecturing at colleges, fundraising etc. • MercyCorps capability. Experience ‘on site’ or out of the Arup offices is In 2013 this ongoing collaboration between the Arup an important part of a young engineer’s development. • MuslimAid There are over 80 community engagement projects globally, Cause, Arup ID and B2P, provided a new 50 metre where there is more than one member of staff involved. suspension bridge across the Muregeya River, providing • OXFAM Our External Relationships access for those living on the south bank to the local • WaterAid Arup ID have over 30 worldwide partners including market, secondary school and hospital. We developed the Arup was a founder member of RedR, an international charities, charitable foundations, NGOs, and governments. ‘BridgeTOOL’ learning resource to educate and empower charity that coordinates the deployment of skilled • American REd Cross the local community to design and build their own professionals to where they have most impact in emergency • Danish Red Cross Arup ID have completed over 59 projects in more than 37 bridge, and this will be made publicly available for other situations. Arup engineers have taken part in field countries. communities worldwide. assignments to provide help at the scene of disasters such as • ICLEI (Local Governments for Sustainability) typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, flooding in Pakistan, and • International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) protracted conflict in Sudan. Many more actively fundraise Our People for RedR. • International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Secondments Crescent Societies (IFRC) Today, 1 in 20 of our people around the globe is on Charitable Foundations secondment at any one time, providing tremendous scope for individual development. • Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) • Qatar Foundation We have seconded staff to many clients including: • Rockefeller Foundation • The LDA; Government Organisations • The Sorrell Foundation; • Department for International Development (DFID) • Imperial College London; • ICLEI (Local Governments for Sustainability) • University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation; Green Building Design Training, Kenya • Turks and Caicos Planning Department • BBC; Our partner, who provides project management, • Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery • East London Line Project; procurement and infrastructure services to governments, (GFDRR) donors and INGOs, engaged us to train their design teams Inter Governmental Organisations • Environment Agency; in green building principles.The key objectives for the • Highways Agency; training were to increase their design team’s understanding Arup staff fundraising for RedR • International Organisation for Migration (IOM) and confidence in applying green engineering principles • Carbon Trust; to their projects and to increase knowledge of the Social Impact Investors and Agribusiness Project practicalities, limitations, integration, and affordability of Developers • Eon,; various measures. After the training, participants were more • CTRL; able to confidently discuss green issues with their clients, • AgDevCo contractors, architects, engineers and quantity surveyors. • Procter & Gamble; and • Greater London Authority. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 38 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 39 Our External Relationships and Our Awards based firms and inspiring individuals who are delivering world-class projects and services right across the globe. Under the Cities Resilience Index project supported by This category celebrates young consultants (under 35) that the Rockefeller Foundation, Arup produced The City have demonstrated serious achievement on the international Resilience Framework, which was launched at the World stage. Urban Forum in April 2014. The framework establishes an accessible definition of resilience and four dimensions of city resilience and twelve indicators by which resilience can be understood. Kayin Daywoodi won the Institution of Structural Engineers Awards Young Structural Enginneer of the Year 2014 Award in recognition of his work with Bridges to Prosperity. Building Code, Turks and Caicos Islands City Resilience Framework In October 2013 Arup and the Sabre Charitable Trust Arup ID was commissioned to update and improve the This framework was launched at the World Urban Forum were awarded the 2013 Third Sector Excellence Awards islands’Building Code, which had been based on the in April 2014. This ambitious project will help shape the Corporate Partnership Award for our on-going 5 year Caribbean Uniform Building Code (CUBiC), which future of cities worldwide, via a tool that comparably collaboration and pro bono work, and recognises our had not been updated for 27 years. Our update used assesses resilience at city scale, to inform and prioritise contribution to building quality sustainable kindergarten the International Building Code as a key reference, and action and investment. Our aim is to identify the most school infrastructure in rural Ghana. incorporated the latest best practice for construction in effective interventions for poor and vulnerable people in zones of hurricane and seismic activity. We also included urban areas. Our research, supported by the Rockefeller “Our partnership with Arup brings credibility to our environmental sustainability requirements for all future Foundation, defines the characteristics of a resilient city and kindergarten school construction programme which is fast island developments.This project formed part of wider key measurable indicators to catalyse action and resource developing a reputation as being the best in Ghana.” efforts to reduce vulnerability following Hurricane Ike in allocation. The framework also incorporates lessons learned Dominic Bond, Managing Director, The Sabre Trust. 2008, which devastated the islands, and to strengthen the during fieldwork in Semarang, New Orleans, Concepción, resilience of communities in the event of future disasters. Surat, Cali and Cape Town. We are developing the As well as providing the TCI government with an updated framework further to create the City Resilience Index, to be Building code, we have provided our client with leverage to launched by The Rockefeller Foundation later this year. update other regulatory documents, and develop an effective enforcement system. Arup staff receiving the Third Sector Excellence Award Jo da Silva, who leads our ArupID team, and Hayley Gryc have Water Infrastructure Design, Vavuniya, Sri Lanka Water Supply System to Enhance Water Security and won the Overseas Prize for the best paper published by the ICE Climate Resilience in the Maldives journal in 2013. The paper ‘Global engineers thinking locally: Our partner is supporting a project to improve local storm creating kindergartens for Africa’, discusses their work on the water drainage, sewage and wastewater disposal, with To counteract a decline in freshwater security, our partner Sabre Kindergarten project, Ghana. Arguing that to deliver the Vavuniya Hospital and the Bazaar area as priority areas for has been appointed to deliver the construction component most sustainable outcomes, engineers need to think locally the improvements. We have been appointed as designers of a potable water supply for the island of Hinnavaru on and understand the local environment. They will receive their for the hospital waste water system, to upgrade collection Lhaviyani Atoll in the Maldives. We undertook the concept award at the Institution of Civil Engineers UK on 17 October and treatment facilities, while for the town, our focus is and detailed design of the system and provided specialist 2014. to do this and also improve surface water drainage. Our groundwater and renewable energy expertise for the design, work is helping our partner ultimately improve the level construction, and construction management of a full Hayley Gryc, from our Arup ID team, was highly of cleanliness of the environment and reduce incidence of water treatment and distribution system. We also targeted commended in the Young Consultant of the Year category pollution-related diseases for the approximately 30,000 upgrades to the existing wastewater collection system of the British Expertise International Awards 2014. These people living in Vavuniya. that were affordable, efficient, sustainable, and followed awards celebrate the achievements of trail blazing UK Integrated Water Resource Management principles. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 40 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014 41 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2014 1 Attachment: −− The Key Speech The Key Speech Sir Ove Arup A In its pre-natal stage, this talk has been These two general principles are not honoured with the name of ‘key in dispute. I will elaborate them a speech’. It is doubtful whether it can little further: live up to this name. What is it The first means that our work should supposed to be the key to? The future be interesting and rewarding. Only a job of the firm? The philosophy? The aims? done well, as well as we can do it and On 9 July 1970 Ove Arup spoke At the moment, sitting in my garden as well as it can be done is that. We to a meeting at Winchester of his and waiting for inspiration, I would be must therefore strive for quality in what partners from the practices more inclined to call it: ‘Musings of an we do, and never be satisfied with the around the world bearing the old gentleman in a garden’ and leave second-rate. There are many kinds of Arup name. His talk was in it at that. quality. In our work as structural response to the collective desire engineers we had and have to to continue working together, I have written before a piece called satisfy the criteria for a sound, lasting despite the changes that would ‘Aims and Means’ for a conference of and economical structure. We add to Senior and Executive Partners in take place as the founding that the claim that it should be pleasing London on 7 July 1969. It did not partners progressively retired and aesthetically, for without that quality it manage to deal much with means, gave up ownership, handing over doesn’t really give satisfaction to us or however, and it is of course difficult to control to the successors they to others. And then we come up generalise about means, for they must would choose for these practices. against the fact that a structure is vary with circumstances. The first part generally a part of a larger unit, and we of this paper was published in Newsletter are frustrated because to strive for The pre-natal name of ‘key37, November 1969. This you may quality in only a part is almost useless if speech’ for this talk has endured, have read but I will shortly summarise the whole is undistinguished, unless the in recognition of the fact that in it the aims of the firm as I see them. structure is large enough to make an Ove both states the aims of our impact on its own. We are led to seek There are two ways of looking at the firm and analyses in his very overall quality, fitness for purpose, as work you do to earn a living: distinctive way the principles well as satisfying or significant forms through which they may be One is the way propounded by the late and economy of construction. To this achieved. From time to time we Henry Ford: Work is a necessary evil, must be added harmony with the but modern technology will reduce it to surroundings and the overall plan. have asked ourselves whether a minimum. Your life is your leisure lived We are then led to the ideal of ‘Total what he said in 1970 remains in your ‘free’ time. valid for us, despite the fact that Architecture’, in collaboration with other The other is: like minded firms or, still better, on our inevitably some specifics about To make your work interesting and own. This means expanding our field of the firm’s organisation and rewarding. You enjoy both your work activity into adjoining fields architecture, individuals’ roles therein to which and your leisure. planning, ground engineering, he refers in passing have changed environmental engineering, computer We opt uncompromisingly for the over the years. On each occasion programming, etc. and the planning second way. we have found that it does, and and organisation of the work on site. thereby reaffirmed our There are also two ways of looking at commitment to these principles. the pursuit of happiness: It is not the wish to expand, but the One is to go straight for the things quest for quality which has brought us The Key Speech is required you fancy without restraints, that is, to this position, for we have realised reading for each person who without considering anybody else that only intimate integration of the joins Arup or who wants to be besides yourself. various parts or the various disciplines will produce the desired result. reminded of what we are all The other is: about, and for those who want to recognise that no man is an island, The term ‘Total Architecture’ implies to learn about us. that our lives are inextricably mixed up that all relevant design decisions have with those of our fellow human beings, been considered together and have and that there can be no real been integrated into a whole by a well happiness in isolation. Which leads to organised team empowered to fix an attitude which would accord to priorities. This is an ideal which can others the rights claimed for oneself, never or only very rarely be fully which would accept certain moral or realised in practice, but which is well humanitarian restraints. worth striving for, for artistic wholeness We, again, opt for the second way. or excellence depends on it, and for our own sake we need the stimulation produced by excellence. The humanitarian attitude hand and becomes very dangerous for and accepted. In short, we must be our harmony, unity and very existence. efficient individually, in all our subThe other general principle, the divisions, and as a world organisation. humanitarian attitude, leads to the It costs money to produce quality, creation of an organisation which is especially when we expand into fields I have tried to summarise the foregoing human and friendly in spite of being where we have no contractual in a number of points. Like all large and efficient. Where every obligations and can expect no pay for classification, it is arbitrary and rough member is treated not only as a link in our efforts. We may even antagonise but may nevertheless be useful as a a chain of command, not only as a people by poaching on their domain help to understanding and discussion, wheel in a bureaucratic machine, but or by upsetting and criticising traditional if its imperfections and its as a human being whose happiness is procedures. incompleteness are borne in mind. the concern of all, who is treated not only as a means but as an end. It also costs money to ‘coddle’ the staff The main aims of the firm are: with generosity and welfare, or to lose Group A Of course it is always sound business lucrative commissions by refusing to to keep your collaborators happy just 1 Quality of work bribe a minister in a developing country, as any farmer must keep his cattle in or to take our duty too seriously if 2 Total architecture good health. But there is or should be nobody is looking. 3 Humane organisation more in it than that. (We know what 4 Straight and honourable dealings happens to cattle.) If we want our work Money spent on these ‘aims’ may be to be interesting and rewarding, then wisely spent in the long term, and may 5 Social usefulness we must try to make it so for all our cause the leaders of the firm a certain 6 Reasonable prosperity of members. people and that is obviously much satisfaction but if so spent it is not more difficult, not to say impossible. It available for immediate distribution If these aims could be realised to a is again an ideal, unattainable in full, among the members, whether partners considerable degree, they should but worth striving for. It leads to the or staff. So aim No. 3 conflicts to that result in: wish to make everybody aware of, and extent with aims 1 and 2. Moreover, if interested in, our aims and to make the money is made the main aim if we are Group B environment and working conditions as more greedy than is reasonable it will 7 Satisfied members pleasant as possible within the accentuate the natural conflict about 8 Satisfied clients available means. how the profit should be distributed 9 Good reputation and influence. between our members the partners This attitude also dictates that we and staff or the different grades of staff. But this will need: should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people. We The trouble with money is that it is a Group C should justify the trust of our clients by dividing force, not a uniting force, as is 10 A membership of quality giving their interest first priority in the the quest for quality or a humanitarian 11 Efficient organisation work we do for them. Internally, we outlook. If we let it divide us, we are 12 Solvency should eschew nepotism or sunk as an organisation at least as a 13 Unity and enthusiasm. discrimination on the basis of force for good. nationality, religion, race, colour or sex Of course there is not really any strict basing such discrimination as there So much for our aims. As aims, they demarcation between aims (Group A) must be on ability and character. are not in dispute. What is debatable, and means (Group C) and the results is how vigorously each shall be pursued (Group B) flowing from the whole or Humanitarianism also implies a social which is the most important; how to partial fulfilment of the aims in A. And it conscience, a wish to do socially useful balance long term against short term is not absolutely certain that these work, and to join hands with others aims. Let us first see what these results are obtained. For instance, A3 fighting for the same values. Our aims imply. and 4 (a humane organisation and pursuit of quality should in itself be straight dealings) can as well be useful. If we in isolated cases can show Obviously, to do work of quality, we considered as a means, and in fact all how our environment can be improved, must have people of quality. We must the points are to some extent both this is likely to have a much greater be experts at what we undertake to do. aims and means, because they effect than mere propaganda. Again, there are many kinds of quality, reinforce each other. And there will be and there are many kinds of job to do, members who are dissatisfied no There is a third aim besides the search so we must have many kinds of people, matter how good the firm is, and the for quality of work and the right human each of which can do their own job same may apply to clients, who may relationships, namely prosperity for all well. And they must be able to work not appreciate quality at all. But on the our members. Most people would say well together. This presupposes that whole, what I said is true. We should that this is our main aim, this is why we they agree with our aims, and that they keep the six aims in A in view all the are in business. But it would be wrong are not only technically capable but time, and concentrate on the means to to look at it as our main aim. We should acceptable to us from a human point of bring them about. rather look at it as an essential preview, so that they fit into our kind of requisite for even the partial fulfilment of organisation; and that they are But before I do this, I will try to explain any of our aims. For it is an aim which, effectively organised, so that the why I am going on about aims, ideals if over-emphasised, easily gets out of responsibility of each is clearly defined and moral principles and all that, and don’t get down to brass tacks. I do this In the following 13 points, which I must consider whether this way is possible, simply because I think these aims are have jotted down some time ago whether it leads to the desired result. very important. I can’t see the point in I found them in an old file I am Unless of course his goal is to go having such a large firm with offices grappling with this question, perhaps through, not to arrive anywhere, like the all over the world unless there is not very successfully. I give them to man in the sports car. But this only something which binds us together. you now: shows that it is the goal which is If we were just ordinary consulting important, whatever it is. engineers carrying on business just as Principles business to make a comfortable living, 1 Some people have moral principles. The star system is an attempt to soften I can’t see why each office couldn’t 2 The essence of moral principles is the rigidity of moral principles. But it carry on, on its own. The idea of that they should be ‘lived’. doesn’t really solve this dilemma. It is a somebody in London ‘owning’ all these little more flexible than moral precepts 3 But only saints and fanatics do businesses and hiring people to bring as to the way, but surely the ‘stars’ follow moral principles always. in the dough doesn’t seem very must be fixed for if they can be inspiring. Unless we have a ‘mission’ 4 Which is fortunate. changed ad lib the whole thing although I don’t like the word but 5 Are then moral principles no good? wobbles. And that in a way is what it something ‘higher’ to strive for and I 6 It appears we can’t do without does I can’t do anything about that. don’t particularly like that expression them. I should have loved to present you with either but unless we feel that we have a strictly logical build-up, deducing the 7 It also appears we can’t live up to aims for the firm from unassailable first a special contribution to make which them. principles. Or perhaps this is an our very size and diversity and our whole outlook can help to achieve, I for 8 So what? exaggeration for I know very well that one am not interested. I suppose that 9 A practical solution is what I call the this can’t be done. All I can do is to try you feel the same, and therefore my star system. to make the members of the firm like words to you may seem superfluous; 10 The star or ideal indicates the the aims I have mentioned. I would like but it is not enough that you feel it, course. Obstacles in the way are to persuade them that they are good everybody in the firm should as far as circumnavigated but one gets back and reasonable and not too impossible possible be made to feel it, and to on the course after the deviation. aims, possessing an inner cohesion, believe that we, the leaders of the firm, reinforcing each other by being not 11 The system is adopted by the only aims but means to each really believe in it and mean to work for Catholic church. Sins can be other’s fulfilment. it and not just use it as a flag to put out forgiven if repented it doesn’t on Sundays. And they won’t believe affect the definition of good or evil. ‘Stars’ like goodness, beauty, justice that unless we do. 12 That this system can degenerate have been powerful forces in the On the other hand, who am I to tell you into permanent deviation is history of mankind but they so often and the firm what you should think and obvious. are obscured by a mental fog or feel in the future when I am gone or 13 One needs a sense of proportion. perhaps I should say the opposite before that, for that matter? It wouldn’t they are created by a mental fog, and be any good my trying to lay down the Incidentally, they should not be taken when the fog lifts, they are seen to law, and I haven’t the slightest inclination as an encouragement to join the have been illusions. They are manto do so. That is my difficulty. I dislike Catholic church! made. I do not rate them less for that hard principles, ideologies and the like. reason but they are too remote, too They can do more harm than good, they I found also another tag: indefinable, to be of much practical use can lead to wholesale murder, as we ‘The way out is not the way round but as guide-lines. They sustain or are born have seen. And yet we cannot live life the way through.’ That’s rather more of the longings of mankind, and belong entirely without principles. But they have uncompromising, more heroic. It to the ideal world of Plato which is in some way to be flexible, to be springs from a different temperament. fixed for ever. Rigid ideologies feed on adaptable to changing circumstances. It’s equally useful in the right place. them. Not so practical politics. ‘Thou shalt not lie’, ‘Thou shalt not kill’, But the man that bangs his head are all very well, generally, but do not Our aims on the other hand are not against a wall may learn a thing or two apply if for instance you are tortured by nearly so remote. We will never from the reed that bends in the wind. fanatical Nazis or Communists to reveal succeed in fulfilling them in toto, but the whereabouts of their innocent The trouble with the last maxim is that they can be fulfilled more or less, and victims. Then it is your duty to mislead. it says something about the way, but the more the better. And they are not What these commandments should not about the goal. The way must be grasped arbitrarily out of the sky or define is an attitude. To be truthful adapted to the circumstances the wilfully imposed, they are natural and always, wherever it does no harm to goal is much more dependent on what obvious and will, I am sure, be other ideals more important in the sort of person you are. I admit that the recognised as desirable by all of you: context, to respect the sanctity of human last maxim also says a good deal so much so, in fact, that the thing to life and not to destroy life wantonly. But about the man who propounds it, a be explained is not why they are where to draw the line in border cases man of courage, of action, perhaps not desirable, but why I should waste any depends on who you are, what life has given too much to reflection, perhaps words on them. taught you, how strong you are. not a very wise man. The wise man will I do, as I pointed out at the beginning them, of course (and I think we have a more it needs to be organised. Most of this argument, because our aims are larger proportion of really good people strong men, if they are also wise, will the only thing which holds us together, than any other firm of our kind). And accept that. Somebody must have and because it is not enough to when we take on new people the authority to take decisions, the approve them, we must work for them choice is limited. Again we have to take responsibility of each member must be and the leaders must be prepared to the best we can get. We cannot pay clearly defined, understood and make sacrifices for them. Temporary them a much higher salary than our accepted by all. The authority should diversions there must be, we have to average scale, because that would also be spread downwards as far as make do with the second best if the upset our solvency and sink the boat. possible, and the whole pattern should best is not within reach, we have to Naturally our method of selection is be flexible and open to revision. accept expediencies and from a strict important, and what we can do to point of view all our activities can be educate our staff and give them We know all this, and we have such an considered as expediencies, for in opportunities to develop is important, organisation: we have both macro, theory they could all be better still but but I can’t go into details here. All I can micro and infra-structure. It has been the important thing is that we always say is that staff getting and staff developed, been improved, and it get back on the course, that we never ‘treating’ must not degenerate into a could undoubtedly be improved still lose sight of the aims. Hence the name bureaucratic routine matter, but must further. We are of course trying to do star system derived from comparison be on a personal level. When we come that all the time. The organisation will with old fashioned navigation. But I across a really good man, grab him, naturally be related to some sort of propose to abandon this expression, even if we have no immediate use for hierarchy, which should as far as partly because its meaning in the film him, and then see to it that he stays possible be based on function, and industry may confuse, especially as it is with us. there must be some way of fixing very opposed to our point of view, remuneration, for to share the available which is in favour of teamwork rather The last is the really important point, profit equally between all from senior than stardom: and also because it which in the long run will be decisive. partner to office-boy would not be suggests star-gazing, which I find Why should a really good man, a man reasonable, nor would it work. And all uncomfortably near the bone because I or woman who can get a job this is very tricky, as you know, might with some justification be anywhere or who could possibly start because, as soon as money and status accused of it. So I am afraid we have out on his own, why should he or she come into the picture, greed and envy to fall back on ‘philosophy’. Having choose to stay with us? If there is a and intrigue are not far behind. One dabbled in this subject in my youth I convincing and positive answer to that, difficulty is particularly knotty, the have been averse to seeing the term then we are on the right way. question of ownership, which is degraded by talk about the philosophy connected with ‘partnership’. There is of pile-driving or hair-dressing, but it is Presumably a good man comes to us dissatisfaction amongst some of those of course useless to fight against the in the first instance because he likes who in fact carry out the functions of a tide. The word has come to stay and the work we do, and shares or is partner dealing with clients, taking in ‘the philosophy of the firm’, it is not converted to our philosophy. If he decisions binding on the firm, etc used quite so badly. So that’s what I doesn’t, he is not much good to us because they cannot legally call have been giving you a dose of. anyhow. He is not mainly attracted by themselves partners but are ‘executive’ the salary we can offer, although that is partners or have some other title. I I will now discuss what we have to do of course an important point but by have discussed this problem in my in order to live up to our philosophy. the opportunity to do interesting and paper Aims and Means. If some viable And I will do it under the four headings rewarding work, where he can use his way could be found to make 100 10 to 13 in my list of aims and means: creative ability, be fully extended, can partners, I wouldn’t mind, but I can’t grow and be given responsibility. If he think of any. 10 Quality staff finds after a while that he is frustrated 11 Efficiency by red tape or by having someone In the Ove Arup Partnership we have all breathing down his neck, someone for but eliminated ownership the senior 12 Solvency whom he has scant respect, if he has partners only act as owners during 13 Unity and enthusiasm. little influence on decisions which affect their tenure of office because his work and which he may not agree someone has to, according to the laws But it will of course be necessary to with, then he will pack up and go. And of the country. And I wish that system mix them up to some extent. so he should. It is up to us, therefore, could be extended to all our to create an organisation which will partnerships. It no doubt irks some allow gifted individuals to unfold. This is people that the money invested in the Quality of Staff not easy, because there appears to be firm may one day (with some How do we ensure that our staff is of the a fundamental contradiction between contriving) fall into the turban of people right quality, or the best possible quality? organisation and freedom. Strongwho have done nothing to earn it but willed individuals may not take easily to what can we do? The money is We all realise, of course, that this is a directions from above. But our work is needed for the stability of the firm, it key question. The whole success of teamwork and teamwork except makes it possible for us to earn our our venture depends on our staff. But possibly in very small teams needs to living and to work for a good cause, so what can we do about it? We have the be organised, otherwise we have why worry? staff we have we must make do with chaos. And the greater the unit, the It may be possible to devise a different My advice would be: calibre, you may accuse me of leaving and better arrangement than the one ‘Stadig over de klipper’, reality behind. ‘As you said yourself’, we have now, more ‘democratic’, more or if you prefer: you may say, ‘our work is teamwork. fair: it may be possible to build in some ‘Take it easy!’ And most of this work is pretty dull. It is defences against the leaders ‘More haste less speed!’ designing endless reinforced concrete misbehaving and developing boss‘Hâtez-vous lentement!’ floors, taking down tedious letters complexes and pomposity and ‘Eile mit weile!’ about the missing bolts, changing forgetting that they are just as much ‘Hastvaerk er lastvaerk!’ some details for the nth time, attending servants in a good cause as everybody site meetings dealing with trivialities, else only more so. This is partly a It’s the fruit that matters. I have a taking messages, making tea what is legal question depending on the laws lingering doubt about trying to gain a exciting about that? You are of the country. But I have neither the foothold in various exotic places. Might discriminating in favour of an elite, it’s ability nor the time to deal with all that we not say instead: Thank God that we undemocratic. What about the people here. What I want to stress is the have not been invited to do a job in who have to do the dull work?’ obvious fact that no matter how Timbuctoo think of all the trouble we wonderful an organisation we can are avoiding. It’s different with the work devise, its success depends on the we do in Saudi Arabia, Tehran and Equality of opportunity people working in it and for it. And if Kuwait1. There we are invited in at the all our members really and sincerely top, working with good architects, You have certainly a point there. Of believed in the aims which I have doing exciting work. We are not course I am discriminating in favour of enumerated, if they felt some hammering at the door from outside. quality, and I would do anything to enthusiasm for them, the battle would But as a rule, grab and run jobs are not enable our bright people to use their be nearly won. For they imply a so useful for our purpose. I think the talents. You cannot equate excellence humanitarian attitude, respect and Overseas Department agrees with this with mediocrity, you cannot pretend consideration for persons, fair dealings, in principle, if not in practice. they are the same. We would be sunk and the rest, which all tend to smooth if we did that. We need to produce human relationships. And anyone It’s also different with civil engineering works of quality, and we need those having the same attitude who comes work, provided we have control who can produce them. One perfect into an atmosphere like that, is at least complete control over the design and job is more important for the morale of more likely to feel at home in it. And if are not ‘sharing’ the job or having a the firm, for our reputation for the right kind of people feel at home quantity surveyor or ‘agent’, etc, producing enthusiasm, than 10 with us, they will bring in other people imposed on it preventing us from doing ordinary jobs, and enthusiasm is like of their kind, and this again will attract a the job our way. The general rule the fire that keeps the steam-engine good type of client and this will make should be: if we can do a job we will going. Likewise one outstanding man is our work more interesting and be proud of afterwards, well and good worth 10 men who are only half good. rewarding and we will turn out better but we will do it our way. In the long This is a fact of life we cannot change. work, our reputation and influence will run this attitude pays, as it has already It is no good pretending that all are grow, and the enthusiasm of our done in the case of Arup Associates. equal they aren’t. There should be members will grow it is this And incidentally, the control of such jobs equality before the law, and as far as enthusiasm which must start the should be where our expertise resides. possible equality of opportunity, of process in the first place. course. But the fact that you are good To export Arup Associates’ jobs is at something is something you should much more difficult, for whilst we may be grateful for, not something to be be able to build a bridge or radio tower conceited about. It doesn’t mean that And they all lived happily in a foreign locality, good architecture you are better as a human being. And ever after? presupposes a much more intimate there are probably many other things knowledge of the country. Long Yes, it sounds like a fairy tale, and you are hopeless at. distance architecture generally fails. perhaps it is. But there is something in But that does not mean that the ideal No man should be despised or feel it. It is a kind of vicious circle except of Total Architecture is irrelevant to our ashamed because of the work he that it isn’t vicious, but benevolent, a purely engineering partnerships or does, as long as he does it as well as lucky circle. And I believe that we have divisions. In fact they have been he can. What we should aim at, made a beginning in getting onto this founded on the idea of integrating naturally, is to put each man on to the lucky circle. I believe that our fantastic structure with architecture and work he can do. And, fortunately, there growth has something to do with our construction, and in Scotland for is nearly always something he can do philosophy. And I believe our instance they are trying to give well. We will have square pegs in round philosophy is forward looking, that it is architects a service which will unite holes, we shall have frustrated people, what is needed today, is in tune with these domains2. unfortunately those who are not the new spirit stirring in our time. But of course there are many other and frustrated one way or another are in the Coming back to my main theme, I dangerous spirits about and too much minority. But fortunately people vary, as realise that when I have been talking growth may awaken them. Too much jobs vary, and few would want to do about quality, about interesting and growth may also mean too little fruit. the job another calls interesting if they rewarding work, about Total are no good at it. Architecture, and attracting people of 1. In 1970 Arup was carrying out a good deal of 2. In 1970 Arup’s Scottish practice had just work in the Middle East. begun to offer a multidisciplinary engineering service for buildings. If we can reach a stage where each worry us for the time being. At the the old leaders retire and growth takes man or woman is respected for the job moment the need for solvency is place mainly locally, the ties that bind they do, and is doing his or her best restricting, and is the most frequent us together may weaken. We should because the atmosphere is right, cause of having to compromise. That prevent this by forging more ties, because they are proud of what we are we may have to do but let’s not do it forming new friendships, and always and do and share in the general unnecessarily, and let’s get back being true to our principles. Improve enthusiasm, then we are home. And on course. communications the universal each job is important. Secretaries, for injunction nowadays. Absence does instance. They could have a And Unity and Enthusiasm, the last not make the heart grow fonder, tremendously civilising influence on our item, is in a way what my talk has been unfortunately. There will always be a staff. They could teach them to write about. It is a question of giving the firm need for a strong coordinating body English, for instance, a most important an identity. What do we mean, when which is at the moment formed by the and necessary job. But secretaries who we speak about the firm, about ‘we’ or senior partners which has the power can do that are of course at a ‘us’? Is it the whole collection of people to interfere if our principles are seriously premium. We must try to find them. It in dozens of offices in different places? betrayed. For should that happen, it is even more important than that they Are ‘we’ all of them or some of them, would be better to cut off the offending are good-looking and nobody could and which? limb, less the poison should spread. accuse me of being indifferent to that. Our name must not be allowed to I think it is unavoidable that ‘we’ should cover practices which conflict with our Our messengers and cleaners how mean different things in different philosophy. But at the moment there is important it is that they are reliable and contexts. Sometimes what is said is no danger of that, and we can take likeable, human, with a sense of only relevant to the upper layers of comfort from what has been achieved. humour. A cheerful remark can brighten management, sometimes it is meant to Perhaps that should have been the gist the day. All our people are part of us, include everybody. What we must aim of my talk? But you are seeing it for part of our ‘image’, create the at is to make ‘we’ include as many as yourself. I could also have dwelt on atmosphere we live in. possible as often as possible. To how far we have still to go; it would increase the number of those who perhaps have accorded more with my But it doesn’t alter the fact that the have a contribution to make, however star-gazing habits. But my time is up services of a messenger are less small, who agree wholeheartedly with my speech should have been valuable to the firm than those of a our aims and want to throw in their lot condensed to one-third but it is too gifted designer or an imaginative with us. We might think about them as late now. I hope at any rate that I mechanical engineer, a fact that even members of our community; the haven’t deserved the warning which the messenger will understand. others, who come and go, might be the Duke of Albany addressed to called staff. Of course there can never Goneril in King Lear: But there are of course people we be any clear line of demarcation it is cannot employ usefully. Masses of not a question of signing a form or How far your them, in fact. Those we should not bestowing a title it is a matter of how eyes may pierce take on, obviously, except on a strictly each feels and what we feel about I cannot tell. temporary basis. But sometimes they them. For it is a two-way business. Striving to better, are found inside the firm. They may oft we mar have been good once, but are on the But what binds our membership what’s well. way down. I am a case in point myself. together must be loyalty to our aims. But their loyal service, their place in the And only as long as the leaders of the hierarchy, makes it difficult to de-grade firm are loyal to these can they expect them. To deal with them requires much and demand loyalty from the members. tact, and is embarrassing. But they This speech is too long already, and I should not be allowed to pretend to do have not even touched on what you jobs they are no good at. They must perhaps expected to be the main not prevent the good ones from subject of my talk, the relationship functioning. It’s a problem all firms between the Ove Arup Partnership and have, it’s one of the cases where the Overseas Partnerships. But from humanity and efficiency clash. To the foregoing my point of view should resolve it tactfully may be expensive, be clear. not to resolve it is fatal. The fact that we have these outposts So far I haven’t said much about all over the world is of course an solvency. Stuart Irons3 can tell you enormous source of strength to us and something about that. I compare it to to you, it helps to establish our stability in engineering structures reputation and power for good, and without it the whole thing collapses but opens up opportunities for all our if you have much more money than members. This is however only you need the usefulness of it declines because the leaders in these places until it becomes distracting and are our own people, bound to us by dangerous. That danger need not common aims and friendships. But as 3. The then Financial Director. Arup’s core values maintain the vision established by Sir Ove Arup (1895-1988): • We will ensure that the Arup name is always associated with quality. • We will act honestly and fairly in dealings with our staff and others. • We will enhance prosperity for all Arup staff. Our priorities are: • our clients and our industry • our creativity • our people • sustainable development. We shape a better world: • to enhance prosperity and the quality of life • to deliver real value • to have the freedom to be creative and to learn. 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ, UK tel +44 (0)20 7636 1531 fax +44 (0)20 7580 3924 email corporate@arup.com www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 2 Attachment −− Global Human Rights Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 2 Human Rights: Global Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Purpose Our approach on human rights reflects this by: Value Diversity. Ensuring that Arup people work in an environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and that they are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect. Discrimination on the grounds of disability, race, age, religion or gender or sexual orientation is in conflict with out guiding principles. Self Esteem. Providing an environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminated any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individual’s self esteem, including bullying and victimisation. Life Balance. Helping people to more easily balance their work, domestic and personal lives Fair Reward. Fairly compensating employees through wages and benefits for their labours. Providing for rewards and other means for staff to share in the firm’s success. Effective Workplace. Giving people a safe, clean, comfortable and healthy working environment that provides for the needs of all employees including those with disabilities. Integrity. Operating in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do when they are striving to achieve the best that they can. Personal Development. Treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 Global Code of Practice Page 2 of 2 Acting Honourably. Acting honourably in our dealings with our own and other people Social Responsibility. Being aware of our social responsibility, striving to do socially useful work and joining hands with others who are working to achieve these values Respect. Ensuring that no-one is subjected to arbitrary interference in their privacy, home or family or attacks on their honour or reputation. Effective Date 28 May 2012 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide and other third parties who are permitted access to the firm’s electronic communications systems, including temporary staff, people who are hired on contract, contractors, joint venture partners and clients. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 3 Attachment: −− Global Harassment Code of Practice −− UK Local Harassment Procedure Global code of practice Harassment Harassment : code of practice Purpose Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 Harassment & Bullying UK Policy What can be categorised as Harassment? Harassment may be characterised as unwanted conduct affecting the dignity of people in the workplace. It may be related to age, gender, gender reassignment, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy, race colour, disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion or belief, nationality of ethnic origin ( protected characteristics ), or any other personal characteristic of the individual. It may be persistent or an isolated incident. The key is that the actions or comments are viewed as demeaning and unacceptable to the recipient, whether or not this is intentional. It can occur in or at of the work place, such as on business trips or at events or work related social functions. Bullying and Harassment can be carried out by anyone (including senior managers, officers, directors, employees, part time and fixed term employees as well as consultants, contractors, casual workers and agency staff) and also by third parties, such as customers, suppliers and/or visitors to Arup's premises. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Once the investigation is completed, the Leader who initiated the investigation will decide, on the strength of the findings, the appropriate action to be taken. Bullying and Harassment will be treated as misconduct. Conversely, any malicious complaint which, on investigation, is shown to be without foundation, will be treated as a matter no less serious than an act of harassment. Individual members of staff may in some cases be legally liable for harassment of colleagues or third parties and may be ordered to pay compensation by a Court or an Employment Tribunal. What is Bullying? Bullying may be characterised as offensive, intimidating, malicious, or insulting behaviour; an abuse or misuse of power through means which undermine, humiliate, denigrate, or injure the recipient. Research suggests that bullies are just as likely to be female as male and that bullying happens equally to men and women. Version 1, March 2014 1 Bullying behaviour may include: • Setting of unachievable objectives and timescales • Insisting that the management way is the only correct way of doing things • Frequently ‘changing the goal posts’ • Setting of ‘trick’ problems • Public ‘dressings down’ whether justified or not • Continual nit-picking about minor issues • Asking individuals loaded questions about themselves • Continually making derogatory statements about an individual • Calling individuals by offensive names. Legitimate, reasonable and constructive criticism of a workers' performance or behaviour, or a reasonable instruction given to a worker in the course of their employment will not amount to bullying on their own. What is Harassment? Harassment is any unusual physical, verbal or non-verbal contact which has the purpose or effect of violating a person's dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them. It also includes treating someone less favourably because they have submitted or refused to submit to such behaviour in the past. Harassment may include, for example: • unwanted physical contact, including touching, pinching, probing, brushing past someone and more serious forms of physical or sexual assault; • unwelcome sexual advances or suggestive behaviour; • sending or displaying material that is pornographic or that some people may find offensive; • offensive or intimidating comments or gestures or insensitive jokes; • mocking, mimicking or belittling a persons' disability; • racist, sexist, homophobic or ageist jokes, or derogatory of stereotypical remarks about a particular ethnic or religious group or gender; • outing or threatening to out someone as gay, or lesbian; or • ignoring or shunning someone, for example, by deliberately excluding them from a conversation or workplace social activity A person may be harassed even if they were not the intended target . For example, a person may be harassed by racist jokes about a different ethnic group if they create an offensive environment. Version 1, March 2014 2 How do I raise my concerns? What are the first steps?Informal procedure Employees who are harassed should keep a written record of all incidents, including the date, time, nature of incident, the names of those involved and the names of any witnesses. They should ask for colleagues who have witnessed the harassment to provide written statements of what they have seen or heard, so that they can be provided as evidence. The Human Resources Group is available to give confidential support and advice. If possible, the person or persons carrying out the harassment should be told by the individual who is being harassed that the behaviour is offensive and unwanted and must stop. This can either be done by talking to the individual(s), or alternatively, writing a letter stating what happened, where and when. A colleague or a member of Human Resources Group can act as a witness when this statement is made. Alternatively, an appropriate Leader can speak to the alleged harasser. Whenever possible, any complaint of harassment should be made in the first instance to the person to whom they report or someone of a similar level. What can I do next? -Formal procedure Where informal methods fail, or where a more serious incident of harassment occurs, employees have the right to bring a formal complaint using the firm's Grievance procedure (see Grievance code of practice). The complaint should be made in writing, and where possible state: the identity of the harasser(s) • The nature of the harassment • Date(s) and time(s) when harassment has occurred • Names and witnesses to any incidents of harassment • Any action taken by the employee to stop the harassment. Employees may raise a complaint of harassment either with their Leader, a more senior member of the firm, or directly to the Human Resources Group. Where the complaint is raised initially with a Leader, the Leader should immediately involve the Human Resources Group. The Leader will arrange for a thorough investigation of the complaint. The investigation will be conducted by someone with no prior involvement in the complaint. The steps taken will be those set out in the Grievance procedure. As far as possible, confidentiality will be maintained throughout the investigation. Individuals not involved in the complaint or the investigation are not to be told about it. It may be necessary to interview witnesses to the incidents complained of, and if so the importance of confidentiality will be emphasized to Version 1, March 2014 3 them. Where the complaint is about a member of staff we may consider suspending them on full pay pending the outcome of the investigation. The investigator will also meet with the alleged harasser or bully to hear their account of events. They have the right to be told the details of the allegations against them so they can respond. Where your complaint is about someone other than an employee, such as a contractor, customer, supplier or visitor, we will consider what action may be appropriate to protect you and anyone else involved pending the outcome of the investigation, bearing in mind the reasonable needs of the firm and the rights of that person. Once the investigation is completed, the Leader who initiated the investigation will decide, on the strength of the findings, the appropriate action to be taken. This may include disciplinary action, in which case the Conduct & Performance code of practice and disciplinary procedure will apply. A meeting will be arranged with you to discuss the outcome of your complaint and what action, if any, should be taken. You have the right to bring a colleague to the meeting, whether or not the complaint is upheld. We will consider how best to manage the ongoing working relationship between you and the alleged harasser or bully. This may include some form of mediation or counselling, or change to the duties, working location or reporting lines of both parties. Where the harasser or bully is a third party, appropriate action might include putting up signs setting out acceptable and unacceptable behaviour, speaking or writing to the person about their behaviour or in very serious cases, banning them from the premises. As a general principle, the decision whether to progress a complaint is up to you. However, Arup has a duty to protect all staff and may pursue the matter independently if we consider it appropriate to do so. Any malicious complaint which, on investigation, is shown to be without foundation, will be treated as a disciplinary matter no less serious than an act of harassment. If the complainant or the alleged harasser is dissatisfied with the outcome of the procedure then he or she may appeal, (see appeals procedure in the Grievance Procedure and/or Conduct & Performance code of practice). What are the roles in this process? Leaders • Any Leader who receives a complaint of harassment must arrange for an investigation of the complaint or incident and ensure that the problem is resolved as Version 1, March 2014 4 quickly as possible, making sure that appropriate action is taken to ensure compliance with the code of practice. Failure to take corrective action may in itself be treated as a disciplinary offence. • All Leaders have a duty to establish and maintain a working environment free from harassment and should be observant and alert to the kind of behaviour which might indicate that a problem exists. Leaders should also be prepared to deal with any inappropriate behaviour even if it has not been complained about. • Leaders are responsible for notifying the Human Resources Group when a formal case is raised, and must keep the Human Resources Group informed and involved as necessary, throughout the process. • Leaders are responsible for ensuring that employees for whom they are responsible have knowledge of and understanding of the firm's code of practice. Human Resources Group • The Human Resources Group will assist Leaders and employees with advice and guidance involved in the use of this code of practice and will keep it under review. • The Human Resources Group will also arrange for employees who request it to have access to advice from trained counsellors, eg from the firm’s Employee Assistance Programme. Employees • All employees must comply with this policy and take steps to ensure that harassment does not occur. • Any employee who feels bullied should feel confident that complaints will be taken seriously and dealt with in confidence • Any employee who is made aware of harassment by a colleague must respect the confidence of the parties involved and should encourage the person being harassed to consider using the correct procedure. • If an employee believes that a colleague is being harassed and that they have not complained about it, then it is the employee's duty to report the harassment of the colleague to their Leader or to the Human Resources Group. • Employees who make complaints or who participate in good faith in any investigation conducted under this policy must not suffer any form of retaliation or victimisation as a result. If you believe you have suffered any such treatment you should inform the Human Resources Group. If the matter is not remedied you should file it formally using the firm's Grievance Procedure. Anyone found to have retaliated against or victimised someone for making a complaint or assisting in good faith with an investigation under this procedure will be subject to disciplinary action under the firm's Disciplinary Procedure. Version 1, March 2014 5 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 4 Attachment: −− Global Health & Safety Policy United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 5 Attachment: −− ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2004 combined certificate United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 6 Attachment: −− UK Disciplinary Procedure UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : UK disciplinary procedure 1 Applicability This procedure applies to all members of Arup in the UK, and to UK members seconded temporarily to work with the UK Partnership, outside the UK. Employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup will be subject to a modified procedure as outlined below in section 4. 2 Introduction The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. It provides clear guidelines on the standard of conduct and performance which is expected, whilst also offering support to those who experience difficulty in meeting the standard. Where there are no improvements in conduct/performance, sanctions may be imposed. Particularly in the case of performance issues, the action may be to consider suitable alternative work within the firm or suitable training which may improve the situation. Conduct: The following list of examples of conduct which may result in disciplinary action is a guide and is not exhaustive. Unsatisfactory conduct could lead to disciplinary action such as the issue of a warning and/or the imposition of sanctions. Unsatisfactory conduct includes such things as: • poor time-keeping • abuse of Arup's policies and procedures • wilful refusal to carry out reasonable instructions given by someone in authority or other acts of unjustifiable insubordination • persistent or unauthorised absences • actions which undermine working relationships with colleagues and/or other organisations or which may compromise our integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Some behaviour is completely unacceptable and could result in summary dismissal with no warnings being given. Such behaviour, termed gross misconduct, includes: • misappropriation or abuse of the firm's property, including electronic property, or wilful damage to it • instances of harassment or discrimination • any kind of physical assault, threatened or actual, during employment or whilst using premises provided by the firm • breaches of Arup's health and safety practices, or any action which endangers people's health or safety • incapacity to work through being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs • theft, attempted theft, fraud, misuse, or any other act intended to deprive the firm of its finances or property, including intellectual property and software; timesheet and expense claim falsifications are included • serious breach of confidentiality, for whatever reason, except where specifically allowed by relevant UK legislation • distribution by any means, including electronic, of material of an offensive, libellous, sexual, or racist nature. 1/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Performance: Before commencing any role within Arup employees should be aware of the performance standards expected. Where those standards are not met, the firm's disciplinary procedure will be used to agree the action required to rectify the situation. 3 The procedure Wherever appropriate, an informal discussion will be held between you and the person to whom you directly report to discuss a case of poor performance or conduct. A written record will be made of this discussion, a copy given to you and a copy kept on your personnel file. If this discussion does not lead to the agreed improvement, the disciplinary procedure as outlined below will be used and this informal record of your discussion will be taken into account in subsequent disciplinary meetings with you. Where the situation is more serious the formal disciplinary procedure will be used straight away. There are four formal stages to the procedure, the fourth stage being dismissal. Serious breaches of conduct or repetitions of unsatisfactory conduct/performance may result directly in an appropriate warning, not necessarily at the first stage. Cases of gross misconduct could result directly in the fourth stage, dismissal. In this case dismissal will be summary, ie with no notice. 3.1 First stage warning (verbal warning) • If conduct/performance does not meet expected standards you will be invited, in writing, to attend a discussion with the person to whom you directly report to talk about the issue and agree action to improve the situation. The letter you receive will give you at least 48 hours' notice of the meeting and will include: the reason for the meeting; who will be present and your right to be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup. • The person to whom you directly report will investigate the circumstances of the incident. He/she may do this by taking statements from any available witnesses which will be available to you. You will be asked during the meeting to present any other relevant information. • The meeting should cover clearly: • a brief description of the conduct/performance to be addressed • reasons for the unsatisfactory conduct/performance • the improvement required • the action agreed with you to achieve this • the timescale within which the improvement is required to take place • the consequences of not achieving the necessary improvement. • No travel costs will be paid in connection with a colleague of your choice attending the meeting with you. During the meeting your colleague may clarify points, request clarification and take notes but, may not answer questions on your behalf. • The person to whom you report will conduct the meeting and your Administrator may be there to take notes. • If it is decided that there is a case for disciplinary action, after the meeting you will be sent a note confirming the items discussed in the meeting. You will be required to sign and return a copy of it to confirm receipt and that copy will be held in your personnel file for the period specified in the note. The more serious the matter the longer the warning remains in your personnel file. The warning might include sanctions such as demotion or a salary freeze, depending on the severity of the matter. Your employment record with the Partnership will be taken into account in determining any such sanctions. 3.2 Second stage warning (written warning) • If there is no improvement within the agreed timescale or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar), another meeting will be held. This second stage will 2/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance follow the same format as the first stage. The person to whom you report directly may also take into account any previous warnings you have received for whatever reason and which are still current. • Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. • After that meeting you may be issued with a second stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.3 Third stage warning (final written warning) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of a more serious nature, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. In some instances, an appropriate member of the Human Resources Group may attend in place of either the person to whom you report directly or your Group Leader. • If the issue to be addressed is a serious conduct issue and you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed, providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. If the meeting results in a warning being issued, your assignment may be ended with immediate effect. After this meeting you may be issued with a third stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.4 Fourth stage (dismissal) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of gross misconduct, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Because of the serious nature of the fourth stage, your Group Leader or equivalent will be expected to attend this meeting rather than the person to whom you report directly, along with a senior member of the Human Resources Group. • In serious cases, particularly of gross misconduct, you may be suspended on full pay whilst circumstances are investigated. This period should not exceed 10 working days. • If you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. • The decision to end your employment is made jointly between your Group Leader, or equivalent, and the Human Resources Group. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal and details of your right to appeal. • If it is decided that the matter is one of gross misconduct, then you may be summarily dismissed, ie without notice. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal, and details of your right to appeal. 4 For employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup The firm's principles of fairness and reasonableness will apply to conduct/ performance issues which are raised with you. During your first six months of service, your performance will be monitored and appropriate training and guidance given where needed. 3/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance You should note that you are subject to the firm's Conduct & Performance code of practice and its associated disciplinary procedure, but it will be modified such that there will be three instead of four stages to the disciplinary procedure; the second stage of the procedure will be omitted. 5 Appeal You may appeal against any measures imposed as a result of the disciplinary procedure. An appeal must be made in writing, outlining your justification for the appeal and sent to your Human Resources Manager. This must be done within five working days of the notification of the measure to be imposed. Your appeal will be heard within 10 working days of the receipt of the appeal, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. The appeal will be heard by a Group Leader outside the Group in which you are employed. You will be required to attend and present your case and you will be entitled to be accompanied by a colleague from within the firm. The appeal may be upheld or rejected or an alternative disciplinary measure to that already taken may be substituted. (The decision reached is final no further appeal will be heard.) Whilst an appeal against dismissal is pending, the dismissal will continue and the appeal heard afterwards. If the appeal is successful and you are reinstated, your employment with the firm will be deemed to be unbroken by the dismissal and you will receive payment for all salary owed to you. 6 Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group is available to provide advice and guidance to all employees involved in issues arising from this code of practice and its associated procedure. Those investigating action under this code of practice are required to keep the Human Resources Group informed of all disciplinary matters. The Human Resources Group is responsible for overseeing any dismissal action meetings (and third stage warning meetings, where appropriate) and for hearing any appeal against measures imposed at any stage of this disciplinary procedure. 4/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 7 Attachment: −− Corporate Report 2012 (Corporate Report 2013 to follow on publication) Corporate Report 2011/2012 © Iwan Baan Steady performance in a tough global climate Focusing on diversification and resilience provides a solid platform to face the uncertainties of the global economy The 2011-2012 financial period has undoubtedly been another challenging year for a sector beset by continuing uncertainty in Europe and Middle East. Yet Arup has maintained our strategic focus, worked hard with our clients and continued to deliver steady results in a tough economic environment. At the end of the financial year, the Group Board was pleased to report that Arup managed to maintain rising income and profits in a very competitive global marketplace. Income grew modestly to hit £991.8 million, while full-year profits stayed positive at £31.1 million. This resilience stands as a testament to the commitment and hard work of everyone across the Arup family. Yet we are also aware that we cannot afford to be complacent and it is important we guard against that across the firm. As a result, we remain just as keenly focused on improving efficiency and productivity as we are in achieving the highest design standards for our clients. The firm also continues to follow a path toward becoming more diversified both across businesses and geographies – a strategy that has helped provide stability in the choppy waters generated by the global economic environment of recent years. As a result, we remain well placed to meet the uncertainties of the market in the year ahead with excellent people on board and a strong pipeline of both talent and projects coming through. The highlight of 2012, though, is the chance to showcase our abilities to deliver to a gold medal standard in this Olympic year. London 2012 represents a boost in income for the firm, but far more importantly it once again highlights our ability to deliver complex projects on time, to budget, and to the very highest standards – a benchmark we fully intend to continue to strive for on every project we tackle. Philip Dilley, Group Chairman © Dennis Gilbert/VIEW © MetroSantiagoChile © Kenny Ip © Darren Soh Baku Tollgate, Heydar Aliyev Timber Wave, London, UK Metro de Santiago, Chile Kingkey 100, Shenzhen, China Marina Bay Sands, Singapore International Airport, Azerbaijan Left: Lincoln Center, New York City, USA 3 CHAIRMAN’S FOREWORD © Zhou Ruogu Architecture Photography International Finance Centre, China Owned in trust for a secure, independent future Arup’s ownership structure has The ability to offer impartial, trusted advice is the foundation for much of Arup’s success over the decades. Whether on major infrastructure works like High Speed been the foundation for decades 2 in the UK, building projects like the International Finance Centre in Guangzhou, China, or consulting projects such as providing transaction advice on the reof solid growth and sound development of the Presidio Parkway in San Francisco, USA, our independence is finance. Most importantly, it never in doubt. allows the firm to maintain its That independence of thought is a key component of our business model, putting independence us in a trusted position with clients and external stakeholders. At the same time, it has also proved important to the firm’s financial foundation over the years. As a Trust-owned firm, Arup is owned for the benefit of the employees, past and present. In practice, this leaves us free to pursue long-term business strategies without the distraction of serving the needs of short-term shareholder profits. Today, the responsibility for maintaining that legacy falls to the Trustees who administer the Ove Arup Employee, Charitable and Service Trusts. Among other things, the Trustees are responsible for appointing the Group Board. The Group Board is led by the Chairman, Philip Dilley, along with 13 Directors, including two non-executives, and supported by three officers. The Group Board is responsible for setting the overall direction, strategy and policies to deliver the firm’s objectives. To reflect the complexity of our multi-disciplinary work, the Group Board has devised a matrix structure for the firm. This runs along strategic lines featuring Regions, Practices, Businesses and a number of senior level executive bodies tasked with supporting specific areas such as design, people and operational management. GOVERNANCE 4 design markets people © Ronald Tilleman operations Group Board Government office, Groningen, The Netherlands The regional structure covers five areas in total – the Americas, Australasia, East Asia, Europe and UKMEA (UK, Middle East and Africa). The three Practices cover the overarching disciplines of Building, Consulting and Infrastructure and help drive our focus on technical expertise and skills development. Meanwhile, the 18 Businesses are outward facing in recognition of the need to support our clients in key sectors such as rail, aviation, waste and energy. Peter Bailey Jenny Baster Alan Belfield Overall, the structure is managed in such a way as to provide internal cohesion between the many skills we have, while maintaining external clarity across the intersecting multi-disciplinary activities that feature in the firm’s work. In combination, Arup is able to develop the skills and careers of our people, while engaging with clients and stakeholders at all levels across multiple disciplines and Robert Care Tristram Carfrae Andrew Chan business areas. This allows Arup to provide the highest quality work and make the most of new opportunities. Strategic approach Arup is widely recognised as a world leader in delivering design and consulting Philip Dilley Greg Hodkinson Michael Kwok engineering services, as well as numerous other architectural and professional skills. Spanning these multiple skillsets and business areas, the Group Board has set out a strategy that aims to promote excellence in four key areas: • to be leaders in design • to invest in markets for the future • to invest in our people and make Arup an employer of choice LM Lui Mahadev Raman David Whittleton • and to inspire operational excellence across the board Non-Executive Directors These four overarching strategic objectives have implications for everything we do. For example, our ambition to be leaders in design has driven Arup to become partners on cutting edge schemes such as the Rokko Observatory in Japan, as well as developing a global series of ‘Penguin Pool’ events to engage with artists and designers across the globe. The strategy of investing in markets for the future has prompted a number of Michael Bear Ngaire Woods initiatives from the expansion of our activities in fast-growing markets in China to the development of a new induction charging technology for electric vehicles in the Officers form of HaloIPT, which proved to be a success for Arup and for low carbon transport. Making Arup an employer of choice means not only reinforcing our commitment to career progression through continuous professional development and the Arup University programmes, but also through developing robust diversity policies across the globe. Martin Ansley-Young Cathy McNulty Matt Tweedie In each area of the firm’s activities, we also aim to promote operational excellence by cutting red tape and focusing on the quality of the work rather than pursuing growth targets, for example, as well as ensuring that sustainability and innovation remain at the heart of our design approach across the board. In short, Arup’s strategy is framed around attracting the best and brightest people and then developing their skills so that Arup can deliver the best projects for our clients and stakeholders. In doing so, we strive to shape a better world. 5 GOVERNANCE © Timothy Hursley Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, HQ, Seattle, USA Resilience drives progress in competitive global markets Arup aims to stay profitable Arup’s business performance in 2011-2012 was influenced by a number of external factors, not least the continuing after-effects of the global financial crisis and and build a better business uncertainty in the Eurozone and the Middle East. Despite the impact of these geopolitical difficulties on specific markets, the picture for the Group as a whole has for our people and our clients been characterised by solid returns and a resilient performance. In a very competitive global market, Arup Group’s resilience saw income rise 2.6% to £991.8 million, while operating profits climbed 16.4% to £28.7 million. Performance was helped by the integration of the previously independent Arup Ireland into the Group and the sale of the HaloIPT electric vehicle venture, which pushed full-year profits to a positive £31.1 million. These solid financial results demonstrate how the Group has responded to the challenges brought to bear in a patchy and cautious global investment climate. It also highlights the effectiveness of a strategic approach that emphasises excellence in design and operations alongside sound strategic investment in key markets and the people who are at the core of all our businesses. Critically, the firm will maintain its tradition of adding value through innovative and sustainable design approaches across the business – the underpinning element that has helped guide Arup’s success over the years. BUSINESS OPERATIONS 6 © Marcel Lam Photography Harbour Area Treatment Scheme, Hong Kong Across the regions Analysis of the Group’s performance over the year highlights the resilience of Arup’s global diversification strategy. Increased turnover in Asia (up 18.1%), Australasia (up 9.5%) and the Americas (up 10.9%) helped offset declines in the Middle East and The Group’s key interest Africa region (down 18.2%). remains in delivering great At the same time, income in the UK and Europe held relatively steady, which the projects for our clients Board believes represents a commendable performance for the Group overall given the economic climate. There is no doubt that turnover is a useful metric for the firm, but the Group’s key interest remains in delivering great projects for our clients as part of our ambition to shape a better world. Looking across the regions there is no doubt that some outstanding projects were delivered over the period in each of the three main Practice areas – buildings, consulting and infrastructure. In the buildings arena, a number of schemes stood out, not least the AAMI Park Selected awards Stadium in Melbourne, Australia, the Education Executive Agency and Tax Office in Groningen (one of the most environmentally-friendly buildings in the Netherlands) Moses Mabhida Commuter Station, Durban, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation HQ in Seattle, USA. AAMI Park set new KwaZulu Natal, South Africa benchmarks in efficiency and sustainability, while the Seattle HQ demonstrates the Kwazulu Natal Institute for Architecture (KZ NIA) Award true value of delivering sustainable design at scale as the Bill and Melinda Gates Southern African Institute of Steel Construction (SAISC) scheme became the largest non-profit LEED Platinum building in the world. Steel Award Winner In a similar vein, the consulting teams have been enhancing the firm’s global reputation with world-class projects such as the Singapore Sports Hub, which uses an Sabiha Gokcen International Airport, Istanbul, energy-efficient spectator cooling system, as well as through work such as the joint Turkey publication of a Low Energy Lighting Guide for the BBC, which has helped the UK European Steel Design Award broadcaster cut energy use as well as costs. Evelyn Grace City Academy, London, UK In the other main Practice area – infrastructure – the firm’s success is a truly Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) worldwide phenomenon with several major projects nearing completion such as the Stirling Prize prestigious A30 Autoroute in Montreal and the Harbour Area Treatment Scheme in Hong Kong – a new sewage system that will serve a population of five million on both sides of the Victoria Harbour. In all these areas, the Practices work tirelessly to ensure that Arup maintains its world-beating edge in technical expertise and thought leadership, as well as maintaining our reputation for innovation and sustainability across the board. 7 BUSINESS OPERATIONS Gautrain, South Africa Arts & Culture ial © NA30 CJV n erc Aviat A30, Montreal, Canada io mm io n Co at uc gy Ed En er ent Arup Businesses r nm G ove When it comes to dealing with clients, our approach is to strive to ensure that our teams ‘talk the same language’ as the people we deal with, both figuratively and hcare 18 Healt metaphorically. This is why Arup aims to employ a diverse workforce, work with Business clients who share a passion for innovation, and run 18 Businesses across the firm, Highways Areas so that a complex mix of seamlessly integrated services are targeted and tailored to Hote ls & L specific client audiences and stakeholder groups. eisur Ma e riti me Rail, for example, is one of the firm’s largest Businesses and in this sector any project M of significant scale requires a huge number of different skillsets. As a result, we have in in Wat i g a dedicated global rail team which works with clients and at the same time each er Ra Wa individual project team can draw on a wealth of in-house expertise. For example, en l ste t Retail sid Science & Industry Spor environmental experts can be deployed to examine the route and look at impact Re mitigation such as the tunnels created for the Gautrain project in South Africa. The tial team might draw on high-level operational expertise to inform the design engineering for highly complex projects such as the Second Avenue Subway in New York. Or the firm’s acoustics expertise can be used to engage the public during consultation as Arup did on the HS2 high speed rail line in the UK. BUSINESS OPERATIONS 8 The story is the same for other major Businesses such as Highways. The firm’s internal networks allow internationally recognised experts from across the globe to collaborate seamlessly on vast infrastructure schemes including the Forth Bridge Replacement near Edinburgh in the UK or the Presidio Parkway in San Francisco, USA, where the project team is tasked with delivering a new approach to the Golden Gate Bridge while maintaining traffic flows of some 100,000 vehicles per day. Across all our Businesses, we actively seek to work with clients who share our values and vision in terms of sustainability and this is clearly evident from many of the projects undertaken in another of Arup’s major business areas – Commercial Property. A particularly interesting example is 1 Bligh Street in Sydney, Australia, which was the city’s first 6-Star Green Star high-rise building. The project is the first high-rise in Australia to employ a double skin façade on this scale and set new standards for sustainability and innovation in high-rise development in the country. At the same time, the firm is enhancing our reputation for innovation with projects such as BSkyB’s Harlequin building in London, UK, where Arup has helped design arguably the most sustainable broadcasting studio of its type in the world. The studio includes eight state-of-the-art, naturally-ventilated studios, offices and free-cooled data rooms, all following the client’s design brief to create a world-leading, genuinely sustainable HQ. These examples represent just a few of the many schemes where Arup once again combines innovation and sustainability. © Oaker Singapore Sports City Global outlook Despite the inevitable challenges created by a soft global trading environment, Arup approaches the year with confidence, safe in the knowledge that the firm boasts many of the world’s best people working in fields ranging from sustainable masterplanning and acoustics to high speed rail and airport design. The firm’s Trust-owned structure also means that Arup retains the ability to plan for a long-term future. That advantage, allied with another solid financial performance and the rising number of existing and potential clients around the globe who share the group’s culture and passion for excellence, innovation and sustainable solutions means that Arup is optimistic the firm will see an even better 2012-2013. 9 BUSINESS OPERATIONS Employee engagement is a key factor in Arup’s success The art of being an ‘employer of choice’ Attracting, nurturing and It is often said that Arup is ‘unique’. One of the reasons for this is that Arup is a Trust-owned firm run for the benefit of the employeesa. As such, the group values its developing the skills of people greatly. This is why one of the strategic goals Arup has set itself is to invest in our people and have Arup recognised as ‘an employer of choice’. It is a critical people who share our values ambition for the firm as it is one of the key ways in which the group can sustain is key to the Arup model its culture, its expertise and its talent pool, and in turn maintain and grow Arup’s reputation and standing around the globe. As a professional services company, practically everything the firm does for clients and partners depends on the quality of the people who work at the group. So at every level, Arup is committed to attracting those who share our core values, nurturing their talents, developing their skills and striving to provide the best projects and working conditions to enhance our ability to deliver for clients and stakeholders. Selected awards This long-term commitment to excellence and being an ‘employer of choice’ manifests itself in a number of ways. For example, Arup actively promotes and pursues a global diversity policy, action plan and associated training to ensure that Ric Snowden we attract and retain the broad range of people needed to reflect the diverse global Consulting Engineers South Africa (CESA) Aon Engineering stakeholder base the firm serves. Arup’s approach means that these principles of Excellence Awards Mentor of the Year diversity and inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all of those with whom we choose to work. Tim Chapman Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) The firm has also sought to maintain graduate recruitment in an uncertain global President’s Medal economic climate to ensure that we sustain the lifeblood of the firm, maintaining the pipeline of new talent coming into the group. Indeed, in the past year Arup took Dervilla Mitchell on more than 400 graduates, on a par with pre global recession levels. This reflects Women of Outstanding Achievement Award the group’s confidence in the future and ensures that Arup’s people continue to be supported – and challenged – by the pool of new talent coming through. Phil Nedin Once on board, new Arup staff are regularly given responsibility for key deliverables Institute of Healthcare Engineering and Estate Management during the early stages of their careers. This helps promotes responsibility and (IHEEM) Lifetime Achievement Award engagement, which is then reinforced in other ways, for example, via the firm’s commitment to promote global mobility and ensure the group is well-placed for the best international projects. Today, 1 in 20 of our people around the globe are on secondment at any one time, providing tremendous scope for individual development, as well as helping Arup to nurture the global perspective and leadership needed to sustain an international firm serving clients in the long term. PEOPLE 10 Global mobility is an important goal Arup University is a visible commitment to continuous learning The firm’s ambition to promote continuous development is apparent at every level, including the development of critical technical expertise gained via external 86% professional bodies; senior leadership courses designed to reinforce the ethics and culture of the group; and through the Arup University – an organisation established within the firm to increase the return on intellectual capital. Among other things, Arup University accelerates the development of staff capabilities through the provision of modules, workshops, e-learning and formal courses at “I feel proud to work for” Arup Professional, Masters and Doctoral level. Just in the past year, for example, Masters Modules on topics such as Sustainability Leadership and Business Economics were 84% completed by 65 students, while a further 90 students were accepted and enrolled on Modules for the coming period. The Arup University continues to work with internal and external partners such as Imperial College and UCL to develop our engagement in this area. Learning and development has always been highly valued within Arup, because “I would recommend Arup it is so critical to the future of the firm. By attracting, developing and retaining a as a place to work” talented and diverse group of people who share Arup’s values and ambitions, the firm enhances its relevance and sustainability for current and future generations, putting Source: 2010 Arup Staff Survey great design at the service of our clients, partners and communities. 11 PEOPLE © Veolia Water Leighton John Holland Joint Venture Sludge Treatment Plant, Hong Kong Turning thought leadership into action on sustainability Thought leadership is not Arup has a tradition of being in the vanguard of new thinking about how we should operate as a firm and this is very much the case when it comes to the wider enough, which is why Arup sustainability agenda. From the earliest days, the firm’s founder, Ove Arup, set out the importance of having a joined-up approach to design, which included sensitivity is determined to pursue ‘do to the environment and aiming to achieve a social purpose. This early example leadership’ on sustainability of thought leadership has been fundamental to the firm’s development ever since and remains embedded in the group’s thinking, reflected in how we approach our and resilience business, our people, our relationships and even our facilities. The firm’s long-held aspirations in these areas are formalised in Arup’s Sustainability and Policy Strategy. The key elements of the strategy are found in the Group’s philosophy, not least the overarching mission to ‘shape a better world’. By detailing the agenda across four specific areas business, people, relationships and facilities Arup has developed explicit policy goals against which to match progress across the group (see indicators on page 14). SUSTAINABILITY 12 In many of these areas, the firm is doing relatively well. For example, in a short Selected awards time Arup has managed to ensure that 99% of its people work in offices certified to ISO14001 environmental management standards. Inevitably, though, there are Central Park and Canals, Songdo City, South Korea areas where further progress can be made, such as boosting gender diversity. Yet American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) – arguably the most important aspect of the Sustainability Strategy is that it represents Diamond Award for Engineering Excellence – Special Projects a commitment to further progress across the regions and ensures that sustainability remains firmly at the core of the business. Arup Today’s focus on sustainability is evident across the four main planks of the strategy. 2012 Sustainability Leaders For example, we work with clients to optimise social, economic and environmental Best Environmental Consultancy Award performance on extraordinary projects such as the Hong Kong Sludge Treatment Facility. This particular project combines a striking architectural design with sludge HaloIPT treatment and energy production, spas, and environmental, educational and exhibition CleanEquity Monaco Awards facilities. Not only is it set to be one of the world’s largest sludge treatment works, Award for Excellence in the Field of Environmental Technology it also opens a new chapter in the integration of work, education, health and social Research wellbeing. In the same way, we encourage people at all levels in the firm to put sustainability BSkyB HQ, London, UK high on their agenda as part of their everyday work by providing targeted training. Energy Efficient New-Build Project Winner As a result, Arup nurtures the level of environmental awareness the firm is noted for, while developing the high calibre personnel who can make their mark as thought leaders in the field, supporting and encouraging clients, partners and other Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, USA stakeholders following the same path. American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) Excellence Award This is why Arup is known as a ‘go to’ global firm for sustainability projects such as the pioneering study – ‘Copenhagen: Solutions for Sustainable Cities’. Here, Arup and the City of Copenhagen authorities collaborated on an in-depth study into how the Danish city could develop the principles of green growth to deliver real-world economic and environmental benefits. The partners hope to build on the report’s findings in the future to help Copenhagen lead the green growth agenda as the city works to create a smarter, cleaner and healthier environment in the future. 13 SUSTAINABILITY © HG Esch Fotografie/Gale International Korea Halo IPT electric vehicle induction charging 200920102011KPI 2010 2011 2012 Projects setting sustainability New Songdo, South Korea 22.9 25.3 27.3 objectives (%) The firm’s ambition to engage with organisations that share our values and ambition Profit (% of turnover) 2.6 4.8 6.1 to promote sustainability leadership means Arup has worked closely with partners such as the World Economic Forum to highlight the multi-billion dollar market Investments (% of turnover) 1.5 1.2 1.3 potential for energy-efficient buildings. This is a vital contribution as buildings are responsible for 40% of the world’s energy consumption and generate 40% of all Cash at bank (weeks of costs, before profit share) 7.7 6.9 5.3 carbon emissions. As such, retrofitting buildings to improve their energy efficiency presents a tremendous opportunity to reduce costs and impact on the environment. Repeat clients (%) [2] 76.4 65.1 83 Another example of cooperation in this area is the joint venture created between Arup Women in the firm (all grades (%)) 29.5 30 30.5 and the Japanese group, Mitsui, aimed at sparking a wave of green investment around the globe. Arup and Mitsui signed a deal to form MBK Arup Sustainable Projects in Women in management positions 12.8 13.7 14.3 2011 with the aim of getting low carbon investments off the ground. (grades 7-9 (%)) Staff who have received relevant Moving to the final plank of the Sustainability Strategy – the firm’s own facilities – 40.7 33.2 23.6 sustainability training (%) Arup is well aware of the responsibility to practice what it preaches, endeavouring Staff working in offices with and EMS to minimise pollution, waste, and energy use. Here, the indicators show the firm is certificated to ISO 14001 (%) 70.1 99.1 99.7 doing better on carbon with some work to do on paper consumption. At the same Carbon emissions per full-time time, the group can point to some excellent high points over the year such as the employee per year (tonnes CO2) [4] 3.4 3.6 3.3 Brisbane office’s award for being the National Signatory of the Year for improving office energy efficiency under the national CitySwitch Green Office Program. The Paper consumption per full-time employee per year (kg) [5] _ 35.5 40.1 judges in this particular award were also impressed with Arup’s Office Realtime data visualisation system, which allows staff members to directly see their energy, water, Lost time accidents per 100,000 99.7 120 120 paper, and flight consumption trends, ensuring a correlation between individual employees actions and overall outcomes. Charitable donations (£, to nearest 742,000 749,000 743,000 £000) In short, the group is committed to turning a tradition of thought leadership into Pro bono engagement (£ equivalent ‘do leadership’ in very practical ways. The concept of sustainability is constantly 582,000 560,000 843,000 staff cost, to nearest £000) evolving as evidence, knowledge and understanding is accrued around the globe. Arup plans to play its part in both learning and disseminating best practice as a thought leader in the field. SUSTAINABILITY 14 WZQ Bridge, Yunnan Province, China Working in partnership around the world Connecting with partners and Arup’s aspirations to shape a better world put the firm at very heart of communities around the globe. Every day, the firm’s work is helping to regenerate stakeholders in communities neighbourhoods, forge new physical and social infrastructure and transform lives for the better. around the globe is a key element in our work The nature of the work Arup undertakes means that people across the firm are acutely aware of the responsibilities we have toward partners and stakeholders in the wider community. This goes some way toward explaining why one of the many things that sets Arup apart from other firms is a deeply held commitment to communities and causes. The founder, Ove Arup, established the firm to be ‘an organisation which is human and friendly’ and one that carries with it ‘a wish to do socially useful work and to join hands with others fighting for the same values’. Today, Arup fulfils this commitment through: • Giving – via corporate donations through our charitable trust and regional community engagement commitees • Doing – by funding staff to provide technical assistance to humanitarian and development organisations around the world through the Arup Cause, strategic partnerships or local charities • Developing – encouraging staff to undertake networking and shared learning activities on charitable and community issues under the umbrella of Arup’s Community Engagement Skills Network. The end result is that Arup engages with communities around the globe in a vast array of direct and indirect initiatives. 15 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Arup people engage with global communities One of the most straightforward indications of through pro bono work and fundraising this commitment is charitable donations, which amounted to some £743,000 over the year (2011: £749,000). Some of the most sizeable contributions are listed below (see Top 10 Donations) and include the founder’s own charitable body, The Ove Arup Foundation, as well as some well-known international organisations such as RedR and Habitat for Humanity. In addition, the Group provided thousands of hours of pro bono work to various charities at a cost of approximately £843,000, while Arup staff will have added significantly to that total with 21,755 unpaid hours of volunteering and individual fundraising projects. For the Arup family, it is here that the story of community engagement really comes alive as staff at all levels get to use their skills and knowledge to make a difference to their communities. Take the Rayalanka Island flood mitigation and adaptation project in India, for example. Working with the community and local partners, Arup staff were able to help develop an engineering solution that made use Top 10 Donations of locally available Vetiver grass, providing a long-term Name Total sustainable solution for erosion protection. South Africa Education Trust 180,214 The Ove Arup Foundation 81,762 Another Arup Cause project in Uganda’s Teso region RedR 40,320 saw volunteers from the firm help develop the Shalom WuZhiQiao Charitable Foundation 31,635 International School – phase one of a vocational SportsAid 20,464 college for young people in the area that will serve as a Engineers Without Borders 16,313 model for similar projects in the future. Fairbridge Trust 16,000 In Australia, Arup volunteers joined forces with The Smith Family 15,165 Engineers Without Borders to deliver the Murra Habitat for Humanity 13,318 Murra Amenities project in collaboration with the AtmosFair 12,482 Kooma Traditional Owners Association Incorporated at a remote aboriginal homestead in the Queensland outback. The team worked with Emergency Architects SUSTAINABILITY 16 21,755 Hours of voluntary work and fundraising £743,000 Charitable donations in 2011/12 Australia as part of a wider sanitation program in The The team works across a range of sectors and often Solomon Islands at Ranongga, which was among the in challenging geographies to help combat poverty areas hit by the 2007 earthquake and tsunami. and vulnerability, working to increase wellbeing and resilience in the developing world. Another particularly interesting project took place in rural China at Mixia Village in Yunnan Province, close A good example of its recent work is the Communityto the Vietnamese border. Here, Arup teams put in Based Disaster Risk Reduction (CBDRR) study carried years of preparation alongside volunteers from the Wu out for the International Federation of Red Cross and Zhi Qiao Charitable Foundation and Hong Kong and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). This global study first mainland universities to build an Arup-designed bridge began when ArupID was asked to review the impact that will provide a safe passage for the local population of the client’s programmes following the 2004 Indian to access schools and nearby communities. Ocean tsunami. The work has since been replicated in Latin America and the Caribbean, influencing the All of these projects are backed by a whole host of design and implementation of successful CBDRR mentoring and fundraising activities by Arup teams programmes worldwide. across the firm, which brought in £184,000 over the year. Staff in the New York office, for example, The group also helped guide the planning and design partnered with PENCIL, a non-profit organisation that of a new Humanitarian Logistics Hub in Panama brings together business leaders to strengthen New for the United Nations Office for Project Services York City public schools. (UNOPS). The project will improve the capacity of governments and international agencies to respond Strategic partnerships have been set up with charities to natural disasters and other events that may require such as WaterAid to provide technical support for a humanitarian assistance in the region. country program in Nicaragua. And across the firm, sponsored bake sales, walks, cycle rides, and even Meanwhile in Haiti, following the devastating moustache-growing have all featured in Arup offices earthquake in 2010, ArupID helped Habitat for as fundraising efforts have connected our people with Humanity plan their aid programme and coordinate a communities in need around the world. long-term disaster response. The firm and its staff are acutely aware that Arup can Arup International Development never do enough, but by engaging with communities Separate from charitable donations and pro bono work, around the globe, and forging new partnerships, we are Arup International Development (ArupID) is a nottaking positive steps towards fulfilling our aspiration – for-profit business within Arup, working in partnership to shape a better world. with humanitarian and development organisations. ArupID strengthens the overall impact of the firm’s work – helping to deliver strategic objectives and outcomes at organisational, programme or project level. 17 SUSTAINABILITY Who we are Arup is the creative force at the heart Acoustic consulting Masterplanning of many of the world’s most prominent Advanced geometric design Materials projects in the built environment and Advanced technology and research Mechanical engineering across industry. We offer a broad range of Airport planning Nuclear energy professional services that combine to make Architecture Oil and gas engineering a real difference to our clients and the Audio visual and multimedia Operations consulting communities in which we work. Bridge design Planning policy advice Building design Product design Building modelling Project management We are truly global. From 90 offices Building physics Public health engineering in 38 countries, our 11,000 planners, Civil engineering Quantity surveying designers, engineers and consultants Cost management Renewable energy deliver innovative projects worldwide. Economic planning Research Economics and planning Resilience, security and risk Founded in 1946 with an enduring set Electrical engineering Seismic design of values, our unique trust ownership Energy strategy Site development fosters a distinctive culture and an Environmental consulting Software products intellectual independence that encourages Façade engineering Specialist technical services collaborative working. This is reflected in Facilities management Structural engineering everything we do, allowing us to develop Fire Sustainability consulting meaningful ideas, help shape agendas and Fluid dynamics Sustainable buildings design deliver results that frequently surpass the Geotechnics Sustainable infrastructure design expectations of our clients. Hydrogeology Theatre consulting Infrastructure design Thermal energy Interchange design Town planning The people at Arup are driven to find a International development Transaction advice better way and to deliver better solutions IT and communications systems Transport consulting for our clients. Landscape architecture Tunnel design Lighting design Vertical transportation design Management consulting Water engineering Maritime engineering Wind engineering ABOUT ARUP 18 Opposite: Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts, Kansas City, USA © Timothy Hursley Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom Cover image: www.arup.com London Aquatics Centre, UK © Hufton + Crow United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 8 Attachment: −− Global Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice −− UK Equal Opportunities Local Procedure Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 1 Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We will work to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our processes and through our training and development. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on Sustainability and Human Rights. Our employment and recruitment practices will adhere to, and strive to exceed, local legislation wherever we work in the world. Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those with whom we choose to work. Purpose Arup recognises that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation for innovation and creativity and to understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide, our applicants and all those with whom we have contact with through our working lives. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 UK procedure Equal opportunities Equal opportunities : local procedure for the UK 1 Introduction We must all be committed to ensuring that employment practices are applied fairly and equally, unless directed otherwise by law. The Human Resources Group will monitor our employment policies and practices to ensure that they conform to relevant legislation, remain free from bias and enable us all to take advantage fully of available opportunities. The Human Resources Group will take action to redress any examples of discriminatory employment practices, direct or indirect. Any such examples within Arup should be brought to the attention of the Human Resources Group. 2 Procedures 2.1 Recruitment Our equal opportunities code of practice applies equally to all recruitment activities, both internally and externally. Those involved in the recruitment process must be familiar with the code of practice and its proper implementation. Information and training in support of this code of practice are available; each Arup employee is responsible for obtaining these as necessary. The selection process shall be based on a job description which relates to the particular experience, knowledge and skills that are needed for the safe and effective performance of the job. In the event of any complaint or criticism being made by any job applicant in relation to the application of the code of practice, the firm's grievance procedure is to be followed. 2.2 Training Training is available to all members of Arup in accordance with our training code of practice. Any selection criteria applied to training opportunities will take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.3 Career development and promotion The selection criteria for promotion and other career development opportunities within Arup will consider the relevant qualifications, experience and requirements that are needed for the safe and effective performance of the job and shall take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.4 Pay Your salary and benefits will take account of your experience, knowledge and skills, in accordance with the spirit of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.5 Selection for redundancy If job functions become redundant, the selection process shall take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. The firm will ensure that any criteria applicable from time to time to the selection for redundancy are not directly or indirectly in conflict with this code of practice. 1/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP103U01 UK procedure Equal opportunities Those responsible for selecting and informing employees of redundancy must be familiar with the equal opportunities code of practice and its proper implementation. Information and training in support of this code of practice are available; each employee is responsible for obtaining these as necessary. 2.6 Grievance If you believe you have not been treated equitably in accordance with this code of practice, you should refer to the firm's grievance procedure for details of action that may be taken. If the grievance issue relates to the behaviour or actions of the person to whom you report or if you are not comfortable talking to the person to whom you report because of the nature of the grievance eg sex discrimination, the matter may be raised instead with an alternative member of Arup. This should be either a member of the Human Resources Group or another member of Arup who is at least as senior as the person to whom you report. In this event, the manager approached should notify the Human Resources Group directly that a grievance has been raised. All grievance matters raised will be treated confidentially. 2.7 Monitoring Both members of Arup and job applicants are expected to provide certain reasonable personal data in order to ensure that our policies and employment practices are applied equitably throughout the firm. Such information will be collected when you apply when you become a member of the firm, and from time to time, as requested. Any such information collected will be treated confidentially and will only be used for the purpose of monitoring whether our practices meet the aims stated in this code. 3 Responsibility 3.1 Every member of Arup has a responsibility to uphold our equal opportunities code of practice in order to ensure that everyone with whom we work is treated equally and honourably. 3.2 Leaders have a particular responsibility to ensure that grievances are investigated, that confidentiality is maintained and that appropriate action is taken. 3.3 The Human Resources Group has a particular responsibility to ensure that the firm's employment practices do not discriminate, directly or indirectly, against its members and job applicants. It will do this by monitoring procedures and providing a framework, which facilitates access to opportunities. The Human Resources Group will also support the grievance procedure. 3.4 The firm takes this commitment very seriously. Any acts of discrimination by its members will result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance with the firm's disciplinary procedure. 2/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 9 Attachment: −− Global Grievance Code of Practice −− UK Grievance Procedure Global code of practice Grievance Grievance : code of practice Purpose The purpose of a grievance code of practice is to assist the employee in seeking fair, unbiased redress of an employment-related issue. It provides an explicit framework in which employment-related problems can be discussed and addressed. It does not apply to matters related to the outcome of disciplinary action, as there is a separate procedure for this. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup believes that all its members should have the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. In most cases employment related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the grievance procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10501 UK procedure Grievance Grievance : UK procedure The framework outlined below is intended to be fair. It is designed to give you the appropriate opportunity to have your personal employment-related concerns heard within Arup. Your concern ( grievance ) will be investigated thoroughly, and taken seriously, and you will be informed of the outcome. 1 Initial contact You should always be able to talk in the first instance to the person to whom you report if you have a concern about an aspect of your employment with the partnership. If you do not feel it is appropriate, because of the nature of your concern, to talk to the person to whom you report you will have the facility to contact your next level of management, in which case you should contact your representative from the Human Resources Group for guidance. In the case of members of the Human Resources Group, they should contact another nominated leader within the same Division in order to seek guidance on how to proceed. Any discussion you have will be confidential between the people involved unless you specify otherwise. The matter may be resolved at the time of the discussion, or the person to whom you report may need to check information. In any event, it is intended that you are notified of the outcome of your discussions within 10 working days. The outcome of the discussion will take into account all the facts and be sensibly and carefully considered. If you are unhappy with the decision reached, you may raise the concern again, formally. 2 Raising a concern formally You should submit a written summary of your concern to the person to whom you report. A meeting will be arranged within 10 working days, subject to postponement by mutual agreement to discuss the issue and attempt to resolve the matter. If the matter is not dealt with to your satisfaction then an appeal may be made, in writing, to the next level of management within five working days of receipt of the original decision. Should this person be a Divisional Director, it shall be treated as the final stage of the procedure. If you remain dissatisfied with the decision on appeal then a further appeal may be made, in writing, within 10 working days to the next level of management. This will be the final stage of the procedure and no further appeal will be possible. 3 Guidelines At each stage of the formal procedure you may be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup and you should notify the person to whom you report if you intend to do this. Although this procedure may be used to pursue an allegation of sexual harassment there is a separate procedure designed specifically for this which you may prefer to use. 1/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP105U01 UK procedure Grievance Every effort will be made to give you a written explanation of the decision about your grievance within 10 working days, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. 4 The Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group are available to provide advice and guidance to all members involved in the use of this code of practice. The Leadership is responsible for notifying Human Resources when a formal grievance is raised, and for keeping Human Resources informed, and involved as necessary, throughout the process. A Human Resources representative will attend any meetings addressing an appeal. In the case of appeals from members of the Human Resources Group, any meeting will be attended by a member of the leadership team within the same Division. 2/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 10 Attachment: −− UK Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 11 Attachment: −− Sustainability Policy −− Waste A to Z Sustainability Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives The firm will implement practices that promote economic security, social betterment and environmental stewardship and will strive for continuous improvement of performance in these areas. To deliver this, the firm aims to: • set a sustainability strategy for the firm; • be a leader in sustainable development in areas relevant to its business; • work with its clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable business outcomes; • promote sustainable practices; • use its skills and influence to improve the built environment and to maintain the integrity and quality of the natural and cultural environments; • hold its performance accountable to its staff through objective measurements; • report on its sustainability performance and achievements; and • operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of ISO 14001. Outcomes In meeting these objectives, the firm will: For its core business • comply with legal and other requirements that relate to its environmental aspects; • provide value to clients by building upon its reputation for integrated design and a holistic approach to projects; • deliver projects recognised for their sustainability credentials, in line with client expectations; • evaluate projects with respect to their sustainability risks and opportunities and, where appropriate, work with the client to deliver a more sustainable outcome; and • achieve performance that ensures the firm’s economic, environmental and financial viability. Last reviewed April 2014 Page 1 RECYCLING & WASTE STREAMS Paper, Plastics, Card, Cans Glass Residual Waste Specialist Stuff Remove Aerosols food first Food Batteries Foil & plastic packaging Large cardboard Most plastics OK! Electrical stuff Polystyrene No liquids; Toner pour down cartridges sink first Recycle point cupboards For more information, visit the Ovagreen or London FM pages on the intranet, or call the Helpdesk on 53535 Updated: 01/09/2013 Dry Recyclables (R) Glass (G) Residual Waste (W) Separate Collection (S) Office Waste A-Z Orange sacks Clear sacks at tea points Blue sacks ►See notes by item (No free draining liquids) S Aerosols ► Use recycling points where R Envelopes (padded, plain, windowed, etc.) R Posters available* or call FM Helpdesk ext 53535 W Eraser / Rubber R Post-it notes R Aluminium cans S Fans ► Log FM helpdesk call ext 53535 S PPE ► Log FM helpdesk call ext 53535 S Batteries ► Use recycle point where available* W Foam board (composite materials) W Pyrex or send in internal mail marked “attention W Food scraps W Rubber / Eraser mailroom used batteries” W Fruit cores R Rulers R Books R Calendars S Furniture (e.g. broken chairs) ► Log FM S Sanitary (Personal Hygiene), please use the helpdesk call ext 53535. bins provided in the toilet cubicles only. R Cardboard (cups, files, folders, etc.) G Glass (all colours) no broken glass please W Scissors (make safe prior to disposal) R Cards R Hand towels W Sellotape W Ceramics S Liquids (e.g. tins of paint / chemicals) ► Log FM S Sharps ► sharps boxes in first aid room & R Cling film helpdesk call ext 53535. model shop W Coffee grounds W Laminated paper R Soup pots – Empty and rinsed R Coloured paper R Magazines W Staplers S Compact discs (CDs) S Medical ► Dispose in bin in first aid room R Staples S Computers and PC peripherals (keyboards etc) R Metals R Steel cans ► log IT helpdesk call S Mobile phones ► log IT helpdesk call W Stickers S Confidential paper ► Use recycle point where R Napkins W Sweet wrappers (pearlised film) available #, for large quantities sacks with security ties can be requested from FM helpdesk R Newspapers R Sweet wrappers (clear film) ext 53535. R Notebooks W Tape W Crisp packets R Packaging card W Teabags R Diaries R Packaging plastics R Tetrapak cartons R Disposable Coffee cups & lids – except R Paper bags S Toner cartridges ► internal mail: Used toner Styrofoam. (empty liquid residue down a sink) W Paper food wrapper contaminated with food attention Mailroom or use recycle point where R Drink bottles (plastic) R Paper (any colour and weight) available* G Drink bottles (glass all colours) W Pens and pencils (Plastic bodies can be S Waste IT (electrical and electronic equipment) R Drink cartons recycled without ink insert) ►log IT Helpdesk call R Phone directories W Wipes (disinfectant surface wipes) S DVDs R Plastic (bags, bottles, cartons, cups, film, food R Yoghurt pots S Electrical items ► Log FM helpdesk call ext 53535 or use recycle point where available* for containers, laminate, etc) small items W Polystyrene 1. Any questions or for more information visit the London FM or Ovagreen intranet sites or call FM Helpdesk on 53535 2. Please do not put any liquids in the bins. 3. # Paper put in the orange bin is not shredded please tear into pieces if documents have sensitive (but not confidential) information. Document uncontrolled if printed 4. *Recycling points exist on all floors of No. 8 Fitzroy St and B, 4th, 5th & 6th floors No.13 Fitzroy St. Waste A-Z Sept 2013.docx United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 12 Attachment: −− Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure −− Ethical Standards Policy −− 5-Step Ethical Process for Making Ethical Decisions Ethical Standards Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will: • commit to acting honourably and with integrity in all its business dealings; • ensure that no financial or other inducements to gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or on behalf of Arup; • recognise the duty of confidentiality in all our client relationships and give it the highest importance; • identify and address appropriately any potential conflicts of interest; • endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in which we operate; • provide such training, advice, information as may be necessary to personnel at all levels; • integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions; and • provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: • comply with all legal and other applicable requirements of the countries in which we work; • justify the trust of our clients by giving their interests first priority in the work we do for them; • take steps to see that all personnel are aware of, and follow the Ethics Code of Practice; • appoint a Group Board Director with responsibility for ethical business Practices; • where appropriate undertake due diligence of our clients, joint venture partners, agents and other advisors; • participate in appropriate industry forums to promote industry best practice; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business and enhance our reputation in the market. ............................................................... Robert Care Arup Group Ethics Director www.arup.com Last reviewed January 2012 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Ethics: global procedure 1 Introduction ___________________________________________________________________________ The ethical values of integrity, openness and fairness apply to all the activities of a company. It is important not only to have standards, but also to demonstrate to clients, and under possible media scrutiny, that such standards are being met; there is considerable reputational risk associated with ethical failures at a time when anti-corruption issues are high on the media and wider business agenda. The construction sector has been identified as one of the most vulnerable, and global companies that are exposed to diverse local business practices are particularly at risk. The Board accepts responsibility to see that the values, principles and standards of business conduct underpinning how Arup operates are established and applied globally and in accordance with the Ethical Standards Policy has nominated a member of the Arup Group Board to be responsible for ethical business practices. This code of practice is intended to provide guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that these values, principles and standards, are being met. Our behaviour will be judged against these standards. 2 Financial inducements: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup will not, in any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage.  Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments (payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. The only circumstances in which a facilitating payment should be authorised is where there is a real risk to your health and/or safety, or that of a third party, if such a payment is not made. In such event the payment should be reported so that actions can be taken as appropriate. 3 Using third parties (including agents) or working in a Joint Venture: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup commits to undertaking appropriate due diligence on all agents and joint venture partners, and where appropriate, sub consultants that we work with.  If we are required to use agents or representatives in particular countries they must have a clearly defined scope of service and agree to abide by the applicable laws and the terms of this policy as we may be liable for any financial inducements that our agent makes, or offers to make.  Any agency or joint venture agreements that we enter into should require the partners to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws and to comply with this policy.  Arup should reserve the right under any such agency or joint venture agreements to terminate the arrangements if there is a breach of any applicable laws or of this policy. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ 4 Gifts & Entertainment: ___________________________________________________________________________  You should exercise discretion in accepting or offering gifts or hospitality and in determining whether it is appropriate you should ensure you are aware of the circumstances and implications of the offer.  Gifts and entertainment may be perceived as a financial inducement and should never be offered or accepted where the purpose is to gain an improper business advantage.  Wherever possible, gifts from clients should be shared within the group that has been involved in the project.  The following should be considered when determining if it is appropriate to accept or offer a gift or entertainment:  Any gifts or entertainment should be of a modest value, occur occasionally and be appropriate in all the circumstances. If you would feel embarrassed that colleagues or anyone outside of Arup knew about the gift, it is likely to be inappropriate.  The purpose of the hospitality must have a legitimate business purpose. It is not acceptable to accept hospitality if our business contact will not be present, and vice versa.  It is important to consider if the recipient is allowed to accept gifts, government officials and public bodies may be unable to do so.  As a general rule, we should only offer as gifts and entertainment what we would be comfortable to accept; and vice versa  There are some gifts and entertainment which cannot be accepted without prior approval from your Group Leader; these include, but are not limited to money; hospitality that lasts more than one day and that involves meals and/or travel being paid for. 5 Competition: ___________________________________________________________________________  Competition, however fierce, should always be undertaken honestly and fairly.  You must not use improper means to obtain information about our competitors. 6 Confidentiality: ___________________________________________________________________________  Information that is not in the public domain or that may be regarded as confidential in relation to Arup’s business or concerning any other organisation with which you, in the course of your work have had business dealings, must be kept confidential.  You are reminded that there are laws in many countries that prohibit the use of confidential or unpublished information for insider trading on the stock market 7 Conduct & performance at work: ___________________________________________________________  You are expected to apply due skill, care and diligence in the services that you provide for clients. You should, at all times, work to the best of your ability. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________  It is your personal responsibility to acquaint yourself with the legal standards and restrictions that are applicable to the location in which you are working any to comply with these in all respects.  Many of the professional bodies of which staff are members have ethical standards or Codes of Ethics that we individually, and corporately, must adhere to.  If you are responsible for supervising others in Arup you should:  Promote ethical behaviour and compliance with the policy  Monitor compliance with the policy and enforce it as is necessary  Support employees who ask questions or raise concerns in good faith 8 Client Activities: ___________________________________________________________________________  If you are reasonably concerned abut the ethical aspects of a particular project, you will be allowed to decline involvement following appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader  If you are reasonably concerned about ethical aspects of a client’s activities, you will be allowed to withdraw from working with that client after appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader and the approval of the Region Chair. 9 Conflicts of Interest: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup’s professional duty extends to not placing ourselves in a position where any conflict of interest is likely to arise. Where any potential conflict does arise, we must identify it and ensure it is appropriately addressed. Where we have more than one role on the same project for different clients: Follow the procedures for identifying all job opportunities through job application forms. Seek client agreement to the arrangements Implement effective information barriers between project teams so that teams are from separately located groups, led by separate project directors, and operating effectively as separate organisations. Further guidance on information barriers is available here  You must not allow your private interests to influence your business judgment or decision making on behalf of Arup.  You are not prohibited from owning shares in any of our client, partners, contractor’s or competitor’s businesses but it is essential that these business dealings do not raise a conflict of interest or give the appearance of doing so and you must comply with insider trading legislation at all times.  Jobs/affiliations of close relatives may give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest and this should be taken into account.  You may be asked to serve on the board of directors or as trustees etc. of another organization and such roles can provide opportunities for personal development as well as building experience and relationships in new areas. Approval must be sought before such a post may be accepted in the following circumstances: Where the organization is commercial (as this is likely to increase the chance of a conflict arising); or Where there are, or may be perceived to be, concerns in respect of time and commitment, financial exposure or reputation Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Approval should be obtained from the relevant Region Chair or, in the case of a Region Chair or Group Board member, by the Group Chair. 10 Political Contributions ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup funds or facilities may not be used to make political contributions to any organisation or candidate for public office. You are not restricted from contributing financially, from your own funds, to political campaigns or from participating, in your own time, in political campaigns. 11 Asking Questions & Raising Concerns: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup encourages all staff to discuss any queries or concerns that relate to ethical business practices.  If you have a concern or suspect that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you have a duty to report these concerns.  You may report suspected breaches of this policy anonymously, although you are encouraged to identify yourself so that a full investigation is possible. Investigation may not be possible or effective where reports are anonymous. Arup will conduct any investigations sensitively and will take all reasonable steps to keep your identity confidential but in some cases disclosure will be unavoidable.  All potential breaches of this policy that are reported in good faith will be investigated responsibly.  Arup will not tolerate any form of retaliation against individuals who report, in good faith, breaches or potential breaches of this policy.  If you would like to ask a question or to report a suspected breach, you should: o Direct all queries are directed through your Group Leader in the first instance. o Where this is not possible or appropriate, employees may choose to contact the nominated member of the Arup Group Board 12 Disciplinary Procedure for breach: ___________________________________________________________________________ Failure to comply with the spirit or letter of this policy may result in significant reputational damage to Arup and breaches of the law, of any country, is a serious matter which may subject Arup and/or individual employees to civil and criminal penalties. In addition to the above, where individuals are in breach of the terms of their contract of employment they may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Approved by Group Board, October 2011 Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Making Ethical Decisions Making ethical decisions can be difficult and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical decision making process. Feelings Reputation 2 4 Consider Effects Options 1 3 5 Consider the Problem: Consider how your intended Consider how those affected Consider what others Consider the options for raising • Is it legal? action will make you feel: will feel: will think: a concern: • Does it violate our company • Relief, regret or remorse? • Duped, used, angry, annoyed • What would your family, • What is the best method for policies or Code? • If you have to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? • Is it consistent with our values? yourself you are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have • Is it a question of being fair? are probably wrong • That you are the only one reading about it in the paper? or will you need? to benefit? This simple 5 step approach can be applied to any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 13 Attachment: −− Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice Global code of practice Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : code of practice Purpose Arup maintains a Conduct & Performance code of practice to uphold the professional standards expected from all its members. The code of practice provides a framework for guidance to members of the firm whose conduct and/or performance does not fulfil the firm’s expectations. It also provides guidance to members who manage such issues. The aim of the supporting disciplinary procedure is to provide a uniform, fair and responsive means of addressing issues of unsatisfactory conduct and/or performance. CODE OF PRACTICE All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm's role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide (but see also section 1 for further details). Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10101 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2014 14 Attachment: −− Financial Statements 2013 for OAPIL Financial Statements 2013 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited Contents Directors’ report 1-3 Independent auditors’ report 4 Profit and loss account 5 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 5 Balance sheet 6 Notes to the financial statements 7-19 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 1 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2013 Directors’ report The directors present their report together with • Staff turnover is a key non-financial measure the financial statements of Ove Arup & Partners of business performance. For the year ended International Limited (the “Company”) for the 31 March 2013, staff turnover was 10% year ended 31 March 2013, which were approved (2012: 16%). by the board of directors on 14 August 2013. The Company will continue to operate in similar The capital of the ultimate parent company is markets. The Company has a solid, diversified divided into equity shares, which are held in trust portfolio to navigate the market challenges and for the benefit of the employees (past and present) a breadth of quality employees. of the Arup group of Companies (the “Group”) and voting shares which are held by the Ove Dividends Arup Partnership Charitable Trust. The directors do not recommend a dividend payment (2012: nil). Principal activities The Company practices in the field of consulting engineering services, in architecture and in other Directors related professional skills, principally in the United The directors of the Company during the year Kingdom, Continental Europe and Middle East. and up to the date of signing this report, were as follows: The Company operates branches in the United Kingdom, Indonesia, Ireland, Moscow, Poland, J Baster (Resigned 31/03/2013) Qatar, Romania and St Petersburg. A J Belfield* R F Care* Review of the business and future developments T G A Carfrae* These are the results for the Company for A K C Chan* the financial year ended 31 March 2013. P G Dilley* The results show a profit after taxation of £13.2m (2012: £9.2m). T M Hill (Resigned 11/06/2013) G S Hodkinson* (Appointed 01/06/2012) During the year the Company’s turnover increased by 9.3% (2012: decreased 6.2%) and the Company A R M Marcetteau made a total profit before tax and staff profit share J G Turzynski of £26.1m (2012: £19.4m). D A Whittleton* The performance developments of the Company are in line with the expectations of the directors. All directors marked with an * were also directors of Arup Group Limited at 31 March 2013. The principal area of risk and operating uncertainty for the business is its ability to continue to secure new projects and deliver the Directors’ indemnities performance of existing projects in line with As permitted by the Company’s Articles of management’s objectives. To monitor these, the Association, the directors have the benefit of an directors use the following financial key indemnity which is a qualifying third party performance indicators (KPIs): indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was • Turnover and profit per person is a financial KPI in force throughout the last financial year and is used to monitor the continued contribution to the currently in force. The Company also purchased Company. In calculating this measure, profit is and maintained throughout the financial year stated before tax and staff profit share. For the Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in year ended 31 March 2013, turnover per person respect of itself and its directors. was £121k (2012: £112k) and profit per person was £7k (2012: £5k). Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2013 2 Directors’ report (continued) Independent auditors Charitable donations The Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP During the year the Company made donations have indicated their willingness to continue in to charities and for charitable purposes of £296k office for another financial year. (2012: £280k). The majority of the donations were made through the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Financial risk management Trust, whose financial statements are publically available at the Charities Commission. In addition, The Company’s financial assets and liabilities the company provided approximately 8,800 hours comprise cash at bank, overdraft and trade and of pro bono work to various charities, at a cost of other payables and receivables, whose main approximately £530k. purpose is to maintain adequate finance for the Company’s operations. Employees The Company has overseas subsidiaries where The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is transactions, assets and liabilities are denominated key to the future of the Company. Health and in foreign currencies and is therefore exposed to safety matters are regularly reviewed by the currency fluctuations arising from these sources. directors and it is their policy to ensure that: The Company is exposed to a number of financial risks and actively mitigates the risk of financial • full and fair consideration is given to all loss. The key aspects are: applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their capabilities; • Liquidity risk: Cashflow forecasts are prepared to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet • when existing employees become disabled the Company’s liabilities as and when they fall due. (whether from illness or accident) every reasonable effort is made to continue to provide • Foreign exchange risk: Where possible the suitable employment either in the same job, Company matches its currency earnings or by training, in an alternative job; and with currency costs. Where this is not possible, appropriate derivative contracts • disabled persons are given equal consideration may be used. There is no speculative use of for training, career development and opportunities financial instruments. for promotion within the Company. • Interest rate risk: The Company currently does The Company is active in the field of employee not hedge interest rate risk, however the need to communications and employees are encouraged do so is regularly reviewed. to express their views on major policy issues. ‘Working at Arup’ surveys are conducted to • Credit risk: The main exposure to credit risk is obtain feedback from employees. This survey is on amounts due from customers. Controls and confidential and is used alongside consultation procedures are in place to mitigate this risk. with employees where appropriate. Cash investments are held with banks with a minimum credit rating of A-1/P1. Each year, employees are provided with a Chairman’s report and financial information. Note 1f) in the notes to the financial statements Employees are informed of significant business provides further information on accounting for issues via the use of email, discussions with exchange differences. senior management, the Company’s intranet and in-house publications. Research and development Employee involvement in the Company’s The Company engages in research and performance is encouraged and maintained via development on an ad-hoc basis as required participation in a staff profit sharing initiative. to complete projects during the normal course of business. Costs incurred in research and development are immediately expensed to the profit and loss account. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 3 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2013 Directors’ report (continued) Statement of directors’ responsibilities Subsequent events The directors are responsible for preparing the In June 2013 the Company agreed to surrender the directors’ report and the financial statements in lease on Carlow House (property in London) with accordance with applicable laws and regulations. effect from 31 December 2013. The Company will pay consideration of £1m due to early surrender of Company law requires the directors to prepare the lease. financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Disclosure of audit information Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The directors confirm that, as at the date this report (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and was approved, so far as each director is aware, applicable law). Under company law the directors there is no relevant audit information of which the must not approve the financial statements unless Company’s auditor is unaware and that he or she they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view has taken all the steps he or she ought to have of the state of affairs of the Company and of the taken as a director in order to make him or herself profit or loss of the Company for that period. In aware of any relevant audit information and to preparing these financial statements, the directors establish that the Company’s auditor is aware are required to: of that information. • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; By Order of the Board • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained D A Whittleton Director in the financial statements; 14 August 2013 • prepare the financial statements on the going Registered Office: concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ presume that the Company will continue in business. The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2013 4 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited We have audited the financial statements of report to identify material inconsistencies with the Ove Arup & Partners International Limited for the audited financial statements. If we become year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the aware of any apparent material misstatements profit and loss account, the statement of total or inconsistencies we consider the implications recognised gains and losses, the balance sheet and for our report. the related notes numbered 1 to 24. Opinion on financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and In our opinion the financial statements: United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United • give a true and fair view of the state of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2013 and its profit for the year then ended; Respective responsibilities of directors • have been properly prepared in accordance with and auditors United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting As explained more fully in the Statement of Practice; and Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 3, the directors are responsible for the preparation of • have been prepared in accordance with the the financial statements and for being satisfied that requirements of the Companies Act 2006. they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Opinion on other matters prescribed statements in accordance with applicable law and by the Companies Act 2006 International Standards on Auditing (UK and In our opinion the information given in the Ireland). Those standards require us to comply Directors’ Report for the financial year for which with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical the financial statements are prepared is consistent Standards for Auditors. with the financial statements. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members Matters on which we are required to as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 report by exception of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We have nothing to report in respect of the We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or following matters where the Companies Act 2006 assume responsibility for any other purpose or to requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where • adequate accounting records have not been kept, expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or Scope of the audit of the • the financial statements are not in agreement financial statements with the accounting records and returns; or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration amounts and disclosures in the financial statements specified by law are not made; or sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material • we have not received all the information and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. explanations we require for our audit. This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of Jonathan Hook (Senior Statutory Auditor) significant accounting estimates made by the For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, directors and the overall presentation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements. In addition, we read all the financial London and non-financial information in the directors’ 15 August 2013 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 5 Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2013 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 2013 2012 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Notes Turnover 1b & 2 443,797 406,095 Staff costs 3 Wages and salaries (174,702) (168,701) Social security costs (19,424) (18,764) Pension contributions (15,034) (13,723) Other staff costs (8,581) (8,017) (217,741) (209,205) Depreciation 1c & 9 (7,961) (10,153) Other operating charges Charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs (122,546) (98,526) Accommodation (32,847) (32,214) Communications and other overheads (48,391) (42,261) Provision against balance due from Group undertakings (1,252) (203,784) (174,253) Operating profit 5 14,311 12,484 Interest receivable and similar income 6 138 49 Interest payable and similar charges 7 (1,062) (945) Other finance income/(cost) 24 800 (1,300) Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 14,187 10,288 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 (1,033) (1,044) Profit for the financial year 16 & 17 13,154 9,244 All activities of the Company are derived from continuing operations. 2013 2012 Statement of total recognised gains and losses £’000 £’000 Notes Profit for the financial year 16 & 17 13,154 9,244 Exchange translation (losses)/gains 16 & 17 (866) 77 Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme 24 (19,200) (31,000) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss 24 2,547 4,241 Total losses recognised since last annual report (4,365) (17,438) There is no difference between the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the profit for the current and prior financial year stated above, and their historical cost equivalent. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Company number 952468 Balance sheet | as at 31 March 2013 6 2013 2012 Balance sheet £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 9 26,142 29,399 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 10 25,352 25,352 51,494 54,751 Current assets Debtors 11 226,275 280,101 Cash at bank and in hand 20,247 24,228 246,522 304,329 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 12 (178,019) (242,693) Net current assets 68,503 61,636 Total assets less current liabilities 119,997 116,387 Provision for liabilities Dilapidation provision 13 (1,700) (1,825) Net assets excluding pension liabilities 118,297 114,562 Pension liability 24 (104,130) (96,030) Net assets after pension liabilities 14,167 18,532 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 15 45,000 45,000 Profit and loss account 16 (30,833) (26,468) Total shareholders’ funds 17 14,167 18,532 The financial statements on pages 5 to 19 were approved and authorised by the board of directors on 14 August 2013 and signed on its behalf by: D A Whittleton Director Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 7 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 1 Accounting policies a) Basis of accounting transactions or events recognised in the statement of These financial statements are prepared on the going total recognised gains and losses or directly in equity is concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in charged or credited to the statement of total recognised accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable gains and losses or directly to equity respectively. UK Accounting Standards. e) Deferred taxation The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arup Full provision is made for timing differences at the tax Group Limited and is included in its consolidated rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which financial statements which are publicly available. the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially exemption from preparing consolidated financial enacted at the balance sheet date, in respect of timing statements under section 400 of the Companies Act differences which have arisen but not reversed at the 2006. The Company has also taken advantage of the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences exemption from publishing a cash flow statement under between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as the terms of FRS 1 (Revised 1996). stated in the financial statements, which are not permanent. Having considered post year end trading and forecasts Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. and the cash resources available to the Company, the No deferred tax has been provided for on any gain arising directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to from the sales of any assets where the taxable gain has use the going concern assumption. been, or will be, rolled over to replacement assets. The principal accounting policies, which have been applied Deferred tax assets are only recognised where they arise consistently throughout the year, are set out below. from timing differences where the recoverability is foreseen with reasonable certainty. b) Turnover Turnover represents the value of work performed on f) Exchange rates contracts in the year. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency have For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, been translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. the excess is included as amounts recoverable on contracts The trading results of overseas operations have been within debtors. For contracts on which fees rendered translated using an average rate for the year. exceed turnover, the excess is included as deferred income Exchange differences on the translation of the results within creditors. of overseas operations together with those on assets and liabilities in foreign currency are taken directly to c) Tangible fixed assets and depreciation reserves. All other exchange differences are included in Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated the profit and loss account. depreciation and impairment. Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly g) Long term contracts attributable costs of bringing the asset to working The value of long term contracts is based on recoverable condition for its intended use. Freehold property (buildings) costs plus attributable profit. Cost is defined as technical are depreciated over 50 years, expenditure on leasehold staff costs and related overheads plus project expenses. properties is depreciated over the period of the lease As projects reach stages where it is considered that their and all other tangible fixed assets are depreciated over outcome can be reasonably foreseen, proportions of a 4 to 10 year period. the expected total profit are brought into the financial Fixed assets and investments are reviewed for statements. Provision is made for all known and impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances anticipated losses. indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by the excess is included as amounts recoverable on which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its contracts on lump sum projects, and as accrued income, recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the on time basis projects, within debtors. For contracts higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. on which fees rendered exceed turnover, the excess is d) Taxation included as deferred income, within creditors. Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the h) Research and development profit and loss account for the period except where the All research and development cost is expensed in the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is year incurred. recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses or directly in equity. Income tax arising on Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 8 1 Accounting policies (continued) i) Pension costs l) Trade debtors Contributions to the Company’s defined contribution Trade debtors are recognised at original invoice amount. scheme are charged to the profit and loss account when A provision for impairment of trade debtors is established they fall due. when there is reason to believe that the Company will The Company also operated a defined benefit scheme not be able to collect all amounts due according to the during the year as described in note 24. The assets from original terms of the debtor. A provision for exchange the scheme are held separately from those of the differences is also recognised on debts raised in Company in an independently administered fund. Under currencies other than sterling. FRS 17 the assets of the defined benefit pension scheme are measured at their fair (market) value at the balance m) Cash sheet date and compared to the liabilities of the scheme, Cash can comprise of cash in hand, demand deposits and at the same date, measured on an actuarial basis using short term highly liquid investments that are readily the projected unit method. The discount rate used is the convertible to known amounts of cash and which are rate of return at the balance sheet date on a high quality subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the n) Dilapidation provision scheme liabilities. The extent to which the scheme’s The Company is required to perform dilapidation repairs assets exceed/fall short of their liabilities is shown as a on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated surplus/deficit in the balance sheet. The surplus/deficit is at the end of their lease term. Provision for such costs are shown net of deferred taxation. made where a legal obligation is identified and the The increase in the present value of pension scheme liability can be reasonably quantified. The provision is liabilities arising as a result of employee service in the discounted to net present value at the balance sheet date current period is charged to operating profit. Any using an appropriate discount rate. increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising in the current period but as a result of employee service in prior periods is charged to operating profit on a straight-line basis over the period in which the increases in benefit vest. The amount of expected return on the scheme’s assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising from scheme liabilities being one year closer to payment are included as other finance costs in the profit and loss account. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Management assessed the expected return on scheme assets based on a review of past returns and professional advice on the level of future returns. j) Leased assets Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate is shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used. k) Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are stated at cost less impairments. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 9 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 2013 2012 2 Segmental Report £’000 £’000 Turnover by destination United Kingdom 285,988 255,556 Europe 65,513 52,630 Middle East & Africa 50,396 47,954 Asia 16,464 21,989 Americas 13,255 12,681 Australasia 12,181 15,285 443,797 406,095 The Company only operates materially in the business of consulting engineering. 2013 2012 3 Staff costs £’000 £’000 Wages and salaries 162,751 159,615 Staff profit sharing 11,951 9,086 Social security costs 19,424 18,764 Pension contributions 15,034 13,723 Redundancy costs 1,790 792 Other staff costs 6,791 7,225 217,741 209,205 Average number of persons employed by the Company Number Number Engineering and technical staff 3,050 3,012 Administrative staff 625 613 Directors 7 7 3,682 3,632 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 10 2013 2012 4 Directors’ remuneration £’000 £’000 Aggregate remuneration Aggregate emoluments paid 2,524 2,775 Aggregate contributions paid to money purchase schemes 15 65 Number of directors accruing pension benefits under Number Number Money purchase schemes 3 3 Defined benefit schemes 7 7 Some directors are included under both money purchase and defined benefit due to the closure of the defined benefit scheme. 2013 2012 Highest paid director £’000 £’000 Total emoluments excluding contributions paid to pension schemes 445 479 Accrued pension from defined benefit scheme as at 31 March 80 97 2013 2012 5 Operating profit £’000 £’000 This is stated after charging/(crediting) During the year, the Company obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor: Fees payable for audit services 172 172 Profit/(loss) on disposal of fixed assets (1) 5 Profit/(loss) on foreign exchange (82) 927 Research and development costs 15,336 12,477 Operating leases for land & buildings 18,077 18,527 Depreciation 7,961 10,153 2013 2012 6 Interest receivable and similar income £’000 £’000 Bank interest 38 49 Other interest received 7 Interest received from group undertakings 93 138 49 2013 2012 7 Interest payable and similar charges £’000 £’000 Bank interest 31 8 Interest payable to group undertakings 1,031 928 Other interest 9 1,062 945 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 11 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 2013 2012 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities £’000 £’000 a) Analysis of tax charge The charge for taxation comprises: UK corporation tax for the year at 24% (2012: 26%) Less: double tax relief Adjustments in respect of previous years Non-UK tax for the current year 154 115 Adjustments in respect of previous years 756 Current tax charge 154 871 UK deferred taxation for the current year 1,048 (29) Adjustments in respect of previous years (169) 202 Total tax charge 1,033 1,044 b) Factors affecting the tax credit for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 24% (2012: 26%) The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 14,187 10,288 Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax of 24% (2012: 26%) 3,405 2,675 Effects of: Group Relief (1,353) (1,510) Permanent differences (3,235) (2,609) Timing adjustments 1,183 1,444 Non-UK tax in excess of UK Tax 154 115 Adjustments in respect of previous years including non-UK tax charge 756 Current tax charge 154 871 c) Factors affecting current and future tax charges Effective from 1 April 2012 the UK main corporation tax rate was 24%. Following the March 2013 Budget Statement, the main rate of corporation tax was further reduced from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013, and the relevant deferred tax assets have been re-measured. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate to 21% by 1 April 2014 but these later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not reflected in these financial statements. The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 21% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 12 9 Tangible fixed assets £’000 Furniture, Leasehold fittings & Motor property equipment vehicles Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2012 32,385 41,870 109 74,364 Additions during the year 212 4,612 4,824 Disposals during the year (120) (164) (17) (301) Adjustment for exchange differences 46 46 Balance at 31 March 2013 32,477 46,364 92 78,933 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2012 13,279 31,599 87 44,965 Charge for the year 2,536 5,419 6 7,961 Eliminated in respect of disposals (153) (17) (170) Adjustment for exchange differences 35 35 Balance at 31 March 2013 15,815 36,900 76 52,791 Net book value at 31 March 2013 16,662 9,464 16 26,142 Net book value at 31 March 2012 19,106 10,271 22 29,399 10 Subsidiary undertakings Ove Arup & Partners International Limited owns ordinary shares in the companies noted below and these companies were all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited at 31 March 2013. The operating companies were all engaged in the same principal activities as the parent company. Direct holdings Country of incorporation Arup Associates Limited England & Wales Arup doo Serbia Arup Gulf Limited England & Wales Arup International Limited England & Wales Arup Limited England & Wales OASYS Limited England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Limited England & Wales Indirect holdings Arup India Private Limited India Ove Arup & Partners Scotland Limited Scotland Movement of investment £’000 Cost at 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 25,352 The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 13 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 2013 2012 11 Debtors £’000 £’000 Amounts recoverable on contracts 20,227 14,715 Trade debtors 58,430 49,767 Amounts owed by group undertakings 117,401 180,774 Foreign tax recoverable 38 39 Deferred tax asset 5,078 4,209 Corporation tax 2,818 2,000 Other debtors 3,365 4,067 Prepayments and accrued income 18,918 24,530 226,275 280,101 2013 2012 12 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year £’000 £’000 Deferred income 58,168 59,728 Trade creditors 11,820 11,559 Amounts owed to group undertakings 57,957 131,691 Provision for foreign tax 147 822 Taxation and social security costs 8,735 7,691 Other creditors 572 367 Accruals 40,620 30,835 178,019 242,693 2013 2012 13 Provision for liabilities £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 1,825 1,850 Utilisation to the profit and loss account in the year (125) (25) Balance at 31 March 1,700 1,825 This provision relates to dilapidations on buildings leased by the Company, in accordance with our lease contracts. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 14 2013 2012 14 Deferred taxation £’000 £’000 Movement of deferred tax asset: At 1 April (4,209) (3,240) Adjustment in respect of previous years (169) 202 Restated opening balance (4,378) (3,038) Charge/(credit) for the year 1,048 (29) Plus deferred tax on pension scheme deficit (2,472) (2,391) Adjustment for change in corporate tax rate 728 1,249 Adjustment for exchange differences (4) At 31 March (5,078) (4,209) The provision comprises: Accelerated capital allowances (4,775) (3,879) Short term timing differences (303) (330) Deferred tax asset as at 31 March (5,078) (4,209) 2013 2012 15 Called up share capital £’000 £’000 Issued, called up & fully paid 45,000,000 (2012: 45,000,000) ordinary shares of £1 each 45,000 45,000 2013 2012 16 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April (26,468) (9,030) Retained profit for the financial year 13,154 9,244 Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (19,200) (31,000) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss 2,547 4,241 Adjustment for exchange differences (866) 77 Balance at 31 March (30,833) (26,468) Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 73,297 69,562 Pension liability (note 24) (104,130) (96,030) Profit and loss reserve (30,833) (26,468) 2013 2012 17 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 18,532 35,970 Retained profit for the financial year 13,154 9,244 Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (19,200) (31,000) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss 2,547 4,241 Adjustment for exchange differences (866) 77 Closing shareholders’ funds 14,167 18,532 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 15 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 18 Contingent liabilities The Company has recorded a liability for the best estimate of certain claims that have been brought against the Company. At this time it is not possible to measure reliably any other items that may have been incurred but have yet to have a claim raised in respect of it. The Company monitors all claims and takes appropriate insurance procedures to mitigate the Company’s risk. 2013 2012 19 Capital commitments £’000 £’000 Authorised and contracted for 345 136 20 Other financial commitments The Company has the following annual property leasing commitments at the year end, in respect of leases expiring as follows: 2013 2012 £’000 £’000 Within one year 5,106 4,679 In two to five years 2,528 3,058 After five years 11,524 11,506 21 Ultimate parent company Ove Arup & Partners International Limited’s immediate parent company is Ove Arup Holdings Limited, a Company incorporated in England and Wales. The ultimate parent undertakings and controlling parties are the Ove Arup Partnership Employee Trust, the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust and the Arup Service Trust. These are the owners of Arup Group Limited. 22 Related party transactions The Company transacts with other Group companies in the normal course of business. These transactions, in accordance with FRS 8 paragraph 3, are not disclosed as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arup Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are publicly available at 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ. 23 Subsequent events In June 2013 the Company agreed to surrender the lease on Carlow House (property in London) with effect from 31 December 2013. The Company will pay consideration of £1m due to early surrender of the lease. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 16 24 Pension commitments The Company operated a UK registered, contributory pension scheme, which had a defined benefit and a defined contribution section, for employees. On 31 March 2010, the scheme was closed to new members. With effect from 30 June 2010, the future accrual of benefits for existing members ceased. The company replaced this scheme with a group personal pension plan for employees with effect from 1 July 2010. All contributions for the new plan are held and managed by BlackRock Life Limited. The Company has no ongoing liability to the funds held by BlackRock in respect of the employees. For the pension scheme which closed on 30 June 2010, contributions were made in accordance with the rules of the scheme and the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 31 March 2010 using the projected unit method. The actuarial valuation of the scheme’s assets at 31 March 2010 (which took into account the closure of the scheme to come on 30 June 2010), on an ongoing basis, represented 74% of the actuarially calculated liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members and the scheme’s assets had a market value of £494m at that date. The most significant assumptions made by the actuary in carrying out this valuation were the discount rate of 7.3% pre retirement and 5.0% post retirement and the consumer price inflation of 2.5%. Allowance was made for the closure of the scheme and no assumption was made for future salary inflation. A special employer’s contribution of £9.5m was made during the year to 31 March 2013 (2012: £10.5m). The next actuarial valuation is being carried out as at 31 March 2013 but the results will not be available until 2014. The valuation position of this scheme was reassessed at 31 March 2013 by a qualified independent actuary for the purposes of the financial reporting standard FRS 17. The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses is £19.2m (2012: £31m). The scheme holds no assets that are issued or owned by the Company. Management assessed the expected return on scheme assets based on a review of past returns and professional advice on the level of future returns. Relationship between the reporting entity and the trustees (managers) of the defined benefit scheme The pension assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees of the scheme are required to act in the best interest of the scheme’s beneficiaries. The appointment of trustees to the scheme is determined by the scheme’s trust documentation. The Group has a policy that one-third of all trustees should be nominated by members of the scheme, including at least one member by current pensioners. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 17 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 24 Pension commitments (continued) Assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return at 31 March: Long term rate Value of assets of return expected in the scheme 2013 2012 2013 2012 £’m £’m Equities and property 7.4% 7.8% 459.8 371.1 Bonds and cash including net current assets 3.7% 4.0% 144.7 179.4 Total market value of assets 604.5 550.5 Present value of defined benefit obligation (739.8) (676.9) Deficit in the scheme (135.3) (126.4) Less: related deferred tax asset at 23% (2012: 24%) 31.1 30.3 Net scheme liability (104.2) (96.1) Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets 2013 2012 Equities 73% 64% Gilts and bonds 23% 32% Property 3% 4% Other 1% 0% 100% 100% Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account: 2013 2012 £’m £’m Interest on obligation (34.6) (35.9) Expected return on scheme assets 35.4 34.6 Net credit/(charge) 0.8 (1.3) Actual return on scheme assets 66.0 36.5 Movement of deficit during the year 2013 2012 £’m £’m Deficit in scheme at 1 April (126.4) (104.6) Movement in the year: Employer’s contributions 9.5 10.5 Interest cost (34.6) (35.9) Expected return on scheme assets 35.4 34.6 Actuarial loss (19.2) (31.0) Deficit in scheme at 31 March (135.3) (126.4) Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 18 24 Pension commitments (continued) Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2013 2012 £’m £’m Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 April 676.9 629.2 Interest cost 34.6 35.9 Actuarial loss on scheme liabilities 49.8 32.9 Benefits paid (21.5) (21.1) Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 March 739.8 676.9 Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets 2013 2012 £’m £’m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 April 550.5 524.6 Expected return on scheme assets 35.4 34.6 Actuarial gain on scheme assets 30.6 1.9 Actual return on scheme assets 66.0 36.5 Employer contributions 9.5 10.5 Benefits paid (21.5) (21.1) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 March 604.5 550.5 Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) At 31 March 2013 2012 Future average rate of increase in salaries N/A N/A Future average rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 1.9% 1.8% Future average rate used to discount liabilities 4.7% 5.2% Retail price inflation 3.3% 3.2% Consumer price inflation 1.9% 1.8% Pension increases: Pre 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0.0% 0.0% Post 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 1.7% 1.7% NGMP accrued before 01/10/2006 (5% LPI) 3.0% 3.0% Pension accrued after 31/09/2006 (2.5% LPI) 1.9% 2.0% NGMP Non Guaranteed Minimum Pension LPI Limited Price Indexation Mortality 2013 & 2012 PNA00 birth year mortality tables using the 92 series medium cohort projections, allowing for minimum improvements in mortality of 1% per annum. Cash commutation 2013 & 2012 30% of members’ pensions assumed to be taken as cash. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 19 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2013 24 Pension commitments (continued) The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 2013 2012 Number Number of years of years Retiring today Males 22.7 22.6 Females 25.1 25.0 Retiring in 20 years Males 24.6 24.5 Females 27.0 26.9 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. History of experience gains and losses 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (739.8) (676.9) (629.2) (608.5) (492.0) Scheme assets 604.5 550.5 524.6 494.8 359.9 Scheme deficit (135.3) (126.4) (104.6) (113.7) (132.1) Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 11.3 (14.0) (23.7) 12.4 11.9 Experience adjustments on scheme assets 30.6 1.9 4.1 101.8 (138.2) Total actuarial gains and (losses) recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (19.2) (31.0) 1.0 (66.0) ) (81.9) Estimated contributions The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the scheme by the employer next year is £10m (2012: £9.5m). Defined contribution schemes The Company has also made payments to defined contribution schemes of £14.8m (2012: £14m).­ Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom t +44 20 7636 1531 www.arup.com Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 56 Arup / Communication on Progress 2014
