1 Sustainability Report 2013 Reader’s Guide Content Report scope and profile Other activities whose outputs we the end of this report (pages 67-71). have used in the preparation of the These are not necessarily linked to This report describes our sustainability 2013 report include: our Sustainability priorities but have performance for the calendar year been developed in response to the 2013. It covers all STMicroelectronics’ activities and sites, including former •A  review of stakeholder feedback (email, web requests); separate external stakeholder queries we receive. 2013 Company......................................................................................................... 2 ST-Ericsson activities and sites ST at a glance........................................................................................................ 2 This report has been prepared by: which have been transferred to ST •A  review of customer requirements Accessibility Director of publication: Jean-Louis Champseix Value chain.. ........................................................................................................... 3 (see Change in scope). You can find received throughout the year; Editors in chief: Sheila D’Annunzio, Charlotte Yvard details of ST’s structure and countries Our Sustainability report is also Editorial team: Estelle Hainry, Laëtitia Kessas, Dominique La Mantia Significant Events................................................................................................... 4 of operation in the chart on page 2. •A  consideration of questions from accessible on the web in interactive Socially Responsible Investment Editorial Services: Reassurance Network Foreword by Carlo Bozotti................................................................................... 5 Historical information is available PDF format at www.st.com/companyGraphic designer: MARSATWORK in previous years’ reports at analysts and agencies; Sustainability Strategy . . ........................................................................................ 6 reports along with past reports. Printer: ProCo-Print www.st.com/company-reports Printed copies are available on Governance........................................................................................................... 8 •A  review of sustainability issues raised within the Electronics Industry request (see “We value your feedback” Special thanks to: Manik Bansal, Charlotte Belleudi, Philippe Brun, Business Ethics & Compliance........................................................................10 Change in scope to contact us). Patrick Camilleri-Mercieca, Monica Bianchi, Leah Cruz, Nelly Dimey, Paolo Financial & Extra-financial Performance......................................................12 Citizenship Coalition (EICC); Epigrafi, Jean-Luc Estienne, Anne Falut, Franck Freymond, Corinne GasconIn August 2013, ST finalized its exit from ST-Ericsson which has resulted • A high-level benchmarking exercise Assurance Ruiz, Julia Genovini, Abhishek Jain, Stéphanie Joubert, Philippe Laffargue, in a number of changes to the of competitors and other companies Philippe Levavasseur, Iris Lo, Giulia Mancini, Gérard Matheron, Cosimo Musca, Our People................................................................................................... 14 who are recognized for their Det Norske Veritas Germanischer Lee Ngor Leah Tan, Manisha Piyush, Claude Prédal, Laurent Remont, Pascal Recruitment, Learning & Development........................................................16 reporting parameters. Three former Lloyd (DNV GL) has been appointed Roquet, Damien Tisserand. ST-Ericsson sites in Le Mans (France), sustainability approach; Employee Engagement.. ..................................................................................18 Rennes (France) and Rabat (Morocco) to provide assurance services to Thanks to: Adrian Agius, Denise Ann Buhagiar, Olivier Ardesi, Patricia Labor & Human Rights.......................................................................................20 have transferred to ST. • A review of existing and anticipated STMicroelectronics. DNV interviewed Banker, Xavier Baraton, Sean Barrett, Catherine Baudru, Jane Bentley, Elizabeth In addition, approximately 1,000 worldwide sustainability legislation. all relevant corporate departments Employee Safety.................................................................................................22 Beronio, Celine Berthier, Giovanna Bottani, Thomas Bone, Gilles Casanova, ST-Ericsson employees from former and visited three sites (Ang Mo Isabelle Catot, Denis Cazala, Marc Cetto, Gerard Cronin, Jean-François Dame, Employee Health & Well-being.......................................................................24 ST-Ericsson sites in France and Detailed information about each of our Kio – Singapore, Kirkop Malta and Sustainability priorities, as well as our Monica de Virgiliis, Jean-François Delbès, Alberto Della Chiesa, Philippe Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities. . ........................................................26 Italy have been transferred to ST. Rousset France) to review and Dereeper, Giovanni Di Sirio, Edwin Dobson, Pascal Droulez, Karen Duhart, Anne The safety and social data has corporate approach to sustainability, validate ST’s data reporting process Foerster, Esther Gan, Christine Gombar, Federica Grotto, François Guibert, been updated accordingly while the can be found on our website: and to provide assurance of this year’s Our Products............................................................................................... 28 Wendy Hudry, Fumikazu Ito, Frederic Jatropoulos, Lisa Jorgenson, Jessie Kao, environmental data scope remains www.st.com/st-approach-toreport. ST Foundation information sustainability Jiyeon Kim, Sanjay Kumar Piplani, Olivier Leenhardt, Ulrike Leger, Eric Levalet, Customer Satisfaction........................................................................................30 unchanged. and data have not been part of the Claudia Levo, Véronique Livache, Laurence Maricot, Michael Markowitz, Innovation Management.. ................................................................................32 1 ST has also integrated the former external verification driven by DNV GL. Marion McDevitt, Fabienne Merli, Olivier Mermet, Monique Moreau, Krisztina ST-Ericsson Mobile Legacy Product Indicators and use of symbols DNV GL’s assurance statement can be Nemeth, Catherine Nénin, Adeline Oliva, Pietro Palella, Luc Petit, Philippe Sustainable Technology....................................................................................34 Division within its Digital Convergence found on page 73. Quinio, Delphine Rabaste, Antonella Redaelli, Andrew Roberts, Maximilien Conflict Minerals..................................................................................................38 Group. Our financial, products and We report on performance against Roche, Rosario Sanfilippo, Daniel Santana, Gautam Sinha, Dominique Tagarian, quality data has been updated our objectives under each of our accordingly. There was no impact Sustainability priorities. Progress Alignment with GRI and the UN Ricardo Tortorella, Dàvid Uhlar, Roma Zaborowska, Haiyan Zeng, Deyong Zhu. The Environment.................................................................................... 40 on other domains. updates for each objective can be Global Compact We also would like to thank: GHG Emissions from Operations.....................................................................42 found in the “performance versus • everyone who kindly agreed to be quoted in this report and objectives” tables, illustrated by This report is prepared in accordance provide testimony of their collaboration with ST; Water Management.. .........................................................................................44 Materiality and the following symbols: with the 2006 Global Reporting • everyone who kindly agreed to have their pictures published Energy Management. . .......................................................................................46 in the report; stakeholder engagement Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines. We have • our interfaces on ST sites, SE coordinators and EHS teams Chemicals Management.................................................................................48 Target achieved self-declared an A application level who support our activity all year round; In 2011, ST completed an extensive • Site Directors and HR Managers; Waste Management..........................................................................................50 materiality exercise involving a review In progress which has been confirmed by GRI. If G3 indicators are not applicable or • the teams audited in Ang Mo Kio, Kirkop and Rousset for Transport & Logistics...........................................................................................52 of stakeholder concerns to fully align their availability. ST’s Sustainability strategy with No progress/not achieved relevant to us, we have explained this its business priorities and material in the Indicator Index, or in the text of The Community...................................................................................... 54 issues. 22 global Sustainability On hold the report. ST has been a signatory of This report has been prepared following the Sustainability in the Supply Chain...................................................................56 priorities, along with related targets, No data available the United Nations Global Compact GRI G3 Guidelines. It represents a balanced Community Involvement..................................................................................58 were agreed by ST’s Vice Presidents (UNGC) since 2000, which commits and reasonable presentation of our and signed off by ST’s President and ST Environment Health us to fulfilling its ten principles. This Partnerships in R&D and Education. . ..............................................................60 CEO, Carlo Bozotti. These targets are organization’s economic, environmental and and Safety Decalogue report describes actions we have Public Affairs & Industry Networking................................................................62 reviewed annually by internal experts social performance. It also demonstrates our Each of our Sustainability priorities taken to implement these principles, to ensure that they are relevant. This commitment to the UN Global Compact, to has a dedicated page within this and serves as our communication report shows the progress we have report which clearly sets out the on progress. On page 72 there is an which we have been a signatory since 2000. Awards............................................................................................................ 64 made against these targets; providing index that references GRI indicators, data and qualitative information objectives relating to that priority Carlo Bozotti and the performance indicators UNGC Principles and ISO 26000 core New 2014 objectives........................................................................... 66 against each. President and CEO showing our progress. We also include subjects that are contained within this additional performance indicators at report. Additional indicators & GRI statement...................... 67 Copyright©STMicroelectronics June 2014 You can also email us at We value your feedback sustainable.development@st.com All rights reserved. Indicators Index...................................................................................... 72 The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered trademark of the or write to us at We are committed to improving both our sustainability performance and the STMicroelectronics group of companies. Corporate Social Responsibility ways we communicate with our stakeholders. We encourage contributions All other names are the property of their respective owners. STMicroelectronics International NV and debate from all stakeholders and welcome feedback on the content and All commissioned photography 39, Chemin du Champ-des-Filles – C.P. 21 presentation of this report as well as suggestions for next year. Suggestions Copyright©STMicroelectronics CH-1228 Geneva – Plan-Les-Ouates and feedback can be provided at sustainable.development@st.com. Photo credits: ©Shutterstock Switzerland ST at a glance Value Chain France STMicroelectronics is a global leader in the semiconductor market serving customers across the (Crolles, Rousset, Tours) spectrum of Sense & Power and Automotive products and Embedded Processing Solutions. From energy management and savings to trust and data security, from healthcare and wellness to smart consumer China devices, in the home, car and office, at work and at play, ST is found everywhere microelectronics make a Italy (Shenzhen / Longgang) positive and innovative contribution to people’s lives. (Agrate, Catania) Front-end manufacturing sites Morocco Malta Back-end manufacturing sites Malaysia The Philippines Suppliers Assembly line and final test Back-end Singapore • A global semiconductor leader • The largest European semiconductor company We purchase silicon ingot, raw materials, • 2013 revenues of $8.08B(1) equipment, energy, gas, Manufacturing Electrical chemicals and services Front-end Wafer Sorting • Listed on New York Stock Exchange, from many suppliers and The die are cut from the Euronext Paris and Borsa Italiana, Milan subcontractors. silicon wafer before being • Advanced research and development • Approx. 9,000 people assembled in a package. centers around the globe in technology, design, The chips are then tested • Approx. 45,000 employees worldwide(1) product and system R&D prior to delivery to the 16,000 patents customer. • 79 sales offices in 35 countries Approx. 9,000 patent families R&D conception and • 12 manufacturing sites 598 new filings in 2013 design The manufacturing of chips Business customers (1) Including ST-Ericsson, a 50:50 joint venture with Ericsson We electrically 2 is a process of around 400 test the die on 3 separate stages, starting the wafer. It is also with a plain silicon wafer, known as wafer sort Focus on a region Zoom on Sales & Marketing EMEA… and resulting in the etching of several hundreds to thousands of die. or probing. New products are created in THE 4 HEADQUARTERS a multi-step process including We offer a broad range of architecture conception, products and we serve a electrical layout, electrical wide range of customers PROFILE OF OUR SALES TEAM and logic simulation, chip across the markets layout and generation of the described below. Headcount: close to 600 employees, with 35% women. mask that will be used to etch Teams in Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, the design in silicon. France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, Russian Munich Paris Cornaredo Marlow Federation, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Where you find us Germany France Italy England Netherlands, Turkey and UK. EMEA ELECTRONICS MARKET Activities: our EMEA sales team carries out a wide range of functions including sales, marketing, application, Europe Africa supply-chain, quality and customer support throughout Europe is a major player The African electronics the sales process. In addition, our sales team is in a in the global electronics market is a region of unique position to promote ST’s innovative solutions to market. With its rich history, untapped potential. It is customers. It can also drive ST’s capability by bringing population, industry and developing its own small knowledge from those customers back into the business Our MEMS & Sensors infrastructure, it will continue but evolving electronics in areas such as Automotive, Set-Top-Box, Security, are augmenting Our digital to drive innovation and new environment in South Africa Energy efficiency, Smart Grid and Medical. the consumer experience consumer products applications to meet the and the Mediterranean Coast are powering the challenges of the 21st century countries. Africa as a whole augmented digital lifestyle both within the European will be a major recipient Union and worldwide. of the new generation of Our automotive products infrastructure and low-cost are making driving safer, KEY FIGURES greener and more entertaining Middle East medical support designed to Our Microcontrollers Driven by the growing industrial strength of Turkey, meet the societal challenges faced by its populations. 25% are everywhere making everything smarter the technology focus of Israel Electronics will act as an of ST global revenues by location of order shipment. and more secure Our smart power products and the fiscal wealth of the enabler allowing 1 billion are allowing our mobile products oil states, the Middle East is people to fulfil their potential. CERTIFICATIONS to operate longer and making emerging as a key player in Quality more of our energy resources the global electronics market.  All sites are ISO9001/TS16949 certified. Significant Foreword by Events Carlo Bozotti, President and Chief Executive Officer Today we see the semiconductor industry Products We also continued to support the efforts made playing an increasingly important role in by the ST Foundation, whose mission is to Our ongoing Sustainable Technology March helping to solve some of the global challenges of our planet and to make life simpler, safer program ensures that we continue toward spread the benefits of digital technologies by providing both the tools and the basic training and more enjoyable: the need to use our our sustainability objectives while achieving to those who want to develop their computer energy resources more smartly and to technology and product leadership in the skills or reach higher education goals. After 10 dramatically reduce our greenhouse gas markets that we serve. The program allows years of activity in 22 different countries, ST April & May emissions; to protect our personal data with us to deliver eco-designed products and solutions to our customers to address Foundation’s Digital Unify program has now more and better security using ubiquitous reached more than 218,000 beneficiaries. embedded intelligence; and the trend toward worldwide sustainability challenges such as During 2013, we set up twelve new labs in the humanization of technology, with more preservation of natural resources, energy Morocco and we installed 30 new informatics ST signed a new € 350m intuitive man-to-machine interfaces for more saving, and people’s health, safety and wellcenters in Burundi, Congo, Senegal and Sierra loan agreement with the being. natural, immersive and intuitive interactions Leone, as well as rolling out the program to European Investment Bank. June between people and devices. China and the Philippines. During 2013, as part of this program, ST demonstrated its secured ST announced the Nano 2017 Our Sustainability report describes our we brought to market more than 450 access to credits. This new facility ST started two advanced Research and Development strategy, achievements and contributions to “responsible products.” For example, we Sustainability is driving business supports our activities in R&D technology pilot-line projects sustainable development through everything introduced many products in our MEMS program, a five-year public-private sensors and ultra-low power microcontroller performance and innovation related to the that are European Key Enabling strategic R&D program which will we do in our business, working together with our customers, partners and employees. portfolios to enable the creation of wearable All of these achievements in 2013 helped us design and realization of the next Technologies contracted by the lead to further advance leadership Sustainability is deeply embedded in ST’s devices that provide real-time health achieve good progress in our business and generation of technologies and ENIAC JU: in key embedded processing monitoring or improve wellness and fitness. DNA, and we continue to build on our position financial performance, advancing us toward electronic devices. solutions and technologies. Nanoas a long-time pioneer in our industry. We also introduced many power-related our financial model that targets an operating • the 30-month, € 28m products that contribute to increasing power margin improvement by mid-2015. 4 2017 strengthens ST’s leadership During 2013 we made important, focused 5 Lab4MEMS project efficiency and lowering power consumption in such key technologies as FDadvances in the four pillars of our sustainability in the home, in buildings and factories, on the On the business side, we continued to • the 3-year, € 360m Places2Be SOI (low-power, high-performance strategy: our people, our products, the street and in wearable devices around the effectively execute on our strategy focused project. processing), next-generation environment and the community. body. on five key growth drivers: Analog and April MEMs, Power and Smart Power, Automotive, imaging (sensors and image signal Technology results are also in line with our These projects involved several Microcontrollers, and Digital Consumer Ms. Martine processors), and next-generation People sustainability efforts: during 2013 we made and ASICs. In fact, although the market countries, academic institutions Verluyten, embedded non-volatile memories. We completed the announced split-up of significant progress with customers on our in total grew less than initially forecasted, and leading European companies. power-efficient FD-SOI technology, which has member of the ST-Ericsson as planned and in a socially we outperformed our served market, with responsible manner. While doing this, we the potential to significantly reduce the energy our core business growing 3.2% last year ST Supervisory internalized key competencies from the joint and cooling requirement of the rapidly growing compared to a served market decline of 1.6%. Board and its Internet infrastructure as well as power needs We are particularly proud of our customerventure to strengthen product development Audit Committee teams across our Company and we are for the digital home. satisfaction survey’s results, which showed since May 2012, June August already seeing the benefits of this effort in a solid improvement compared to 2012, with an overall satisfaction rate close to 90 percent. succeeded Mr. Tom de Waard as new wave of products that we have started to Environment Chair of the Audit Committee of launch this year. On the financial side, we significantly improved After 20 years of steady progress, our the ST Supervisory Board. We remained committed to be among the our operating result: from a loss of $2,286 consumption of energy, water and best-in-class in our industry in ensuring million in 2012 to a loss of $567 million in chemicals per unit of production continued the safety of our employees worldwide. In 2013; we also maintained a strong cash to decrease. To cite a few achievements, ST signed an agreement with 2013, we delivered an average of 6.4 training 17.6% of the energy we purchased came from position and solid capital structure, with a net Rambus Inc. expanding existing ST and Ericsson announced hours per employee on safety; this action cash balance exiting the year of $741 million. renewable sources compared to 7.4% in 2012 contributed to a 24% and 45% decrease in May licenses between the two the closing of the split up of STour safety recordable cases and severity rates, and 91% of waste generated was recycled At ST, we strongly believe that our companies, settling all outstanding Ericsson and Carlo Ferro’s return and re-used. During the year, we continued commitment to sustainability is a key enabler Jean-Marc Chery respectively, in 2013 compared to 2012. to look for ways to anticipate legislation and of our business success now and in the long claims, and committing both to ST as Chief Financial Officer was appointed In health and well-being, we continued to find alternatives to some chemicals and term and of a better world, thanks to the organizations to explore additional with extended responsibilities. to reduce their use or exposure through positive contribution that microelectronics can General Manager encourage employees to take medical checkopportunities for collaboration. Carlo Ferro remained ST-Ericsson’s ups and screening tests, accumulating a total the development of greener manufacturing and will bring to people’s lives. of the Embedded techniques. The multifaceted agreement President & CEO through the of more than 58,000 medical examinations Processing conducted worldwide during the year. gives Rambus access to ST’s joint venture wind-down. ST has Solutions Segment Carlo Bozotti FD-SOI1 process-technology taken on some of the existing STWe also continued to develop our diversity Community and Vice-Chairman President and CEO design environment while giving Ericsson products as well as certain and equality strategy, ensuring equal We contribute to our community development of the Corporate Strategic opportunities for our employees; this led to ST secured license terms from the assembly and test facilities. In total, in many ways. One way is by helping young Committee of which he has been our recognition by one of the sustainability people enter the work environment. Cryptography Research, Inc. (CRI) approximately 1,000 employees a member since 2008, in order to rating agencies for our leading approach to During 2013 alone, we offered internships, division of Rambus. have joined STMicroelectronics the prevention of gender discrimination and support ST’s new strategic plan. apprenticeships and PhDs to more than 500 from ST-Ericsson. promotion of diversity. students within 20 different ST organizations 1.Fully-Depleted Silicon On Insulator worldwide. THE COMPANY approach in ST. In terms of short-term How do you think sustainability can contribute Sustainability objectives we are leveraging our long-lasting to ST business and success? commitment to sustainability by deploying a “ST chose to address sustainability well before structured approach within the company, many other companies and this is still part of aligned with our business goals. In early 2014, our DNA. ST’s first Sustainability Council was held with Our vision, being everywhere microelectronics Strategy senior management representatives from makes a positive contribution to people’s lives, across all organizations. The objective was to our new brand positioning, life.augmented and raise their sustainability awareness and the 2013 results I just mentioned earlier, show increase their engagement in further that sustainability is deeply embedded in embedding sustainability within ST’s business everything we do. and processes. Another key objective for 2014 is Our awareness and understanding of global the review of our Sustainability strategy to be sustainability challenges and consumer even more aligned with our business priorities expectations allow us to propose innovative and our stakeholder expectations. and responsible products that address the I think these 2014 activities will lay the needs of society. foundation for a new turning point in ST’s Sustainability is important for all our employees, “We believe that sustainability is about our ability to make business success now and in the long term. sustainability approach. In the longer term we and showing them tangible evidence of ST’s It is embedded in our way of working in all our sites, when developing product leadership, financial recognize that sustainability challenges and commitment increases their engagement and health, responsibility towards people, communities and the environment. opportunities are constantly evolving, and we contribution. It is now also a license to operate. Interview with must continue to ensure that every organization Customer requests related to social At the end of the day, sustainability is about people. Our mission is to develop people who develop remains aligned with the latest developments responsibility have increased tenfold over the leading products for the world.” Georges Penalver, in the field.” past five years, as have the requests we make Philippe Brun, Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Sustainable Development Chief Strategy Officer Executive Vice towards our suppliers and partners. President Strategy, Communication, 2013, was the first year of execution for ST’s new strategy. How does ST envisage So sustainability is fundamental to our business Human Resources and Quality in terms of the way we operate. It requires a sustainability in this new context? In August 2013, you were appointed as structured approach and hard work but also ST has been committed to sustainability generates employee company pride. At corporate level, being a full member “Our new strategy encompasses a continued brings many benefits. These include new Corporate Strategy Officer, taking for twenty years. We believe this ST’s Sustainability team works closely of the Electronics Industry Citizenship strong commitment to sustainability. It is about responsibility for Human Resources, Social business opportunities, improved employee focus and this is one of the reasons why, during commitment has played an important with internal communications to ensure Coalition (EICC) allows us to follow the Responsibility, Environment Health and Safety, satisfaction and higher customer and supplier 2013, we decided to prioritize our efforts, role in helping us to achieve long-term employees in all organizations are kept trends in our industry and keep a watch Communications, Public Affairs and Product loyalty. It also allows us to reduce our reinforcing some of our programs such as Quality Excellence. What are your short and consumption of natural resources and achieve business success. Our company vision informed of ST sustainability programs on external events which may impact us. Safety First (see pages 22-23). These focused long-term objectives for sustainability at associated costs savings.” is not only about placing our people and and achievements. 1. For more information, see our Governance section on efforts resulted in a wide variety of pages 8-9 STMicroelectronics? the environment at the heart of the way achievements, such as the numerous awards ST Sustainable Excellence network also “Most of the activities in my scope have a key we have received in 2013 (see pages 64-65), or we operate, but is also about constantly plays a vital role in raising employee role to play in driving a strong sustainability the re-integration in the DJSI Europe index after finding ways to innovate and create culture and systematic implementation an absence of two years.” awareness. Sustainable Excellence 6 products that improve people’s lives. 7 Coordinators are involved in: ST’s current Sustainability strategy • Implementing the ST Sustainability was implemented in 2011, following strategy; a materiality exercise conducted in • Designing local sustainability road 2010. It consists of four pillars and 22 Sustainability priorities as disclosed in maps; • Disseminating sustainability information Focus this Sustainability report. For consistency to employees and managers; reasons, we have now included • Celebrating local sustainability ST 5th Environment Health and Safety Decalogue information on Governance, Business achievements; Ethics and Compliance in the Company • Sharing their good practices with the ST has a long tradition of striving of 2013 with the aim of maintaining Antonella Redaelli to improve its environmental the excellent performance we section (pages 8 to 11). network. Sustainable Excellence Coordinator, performance. In 1993, we were have achieved so far. Our focus Agrate and Castelletto (Italy) During 2013, the company focused on Sustainability is also increasingly one of the first global companies to has now shifted from corporate to continuing to implement the previously scrutinized by our stakeholders, implement an environmental policy site specific level with each of our “In my role as Sustainable Excellence launched sustainability programs and particularly customers and investors (for Coordinator I am in charge of with objectives linked to specific sites working to achieve the best on defining an enhanced Sustainability more information read pages 12-13 and sustainability activities involving ST targets. environmental performance they strategy. 30-31). Our approach to stakeholder employees and local communities. My can according to their own specific Twenty years on, ST has made engagement addresses all our key primary objectives are to promote the circumstances. In fact, at the end of the year we made significant progress in all of the Principles for Sustainable Excellence, to stakeholders including customers, Environment Health and Safety In order to support sites, Decalogue several key decisions about how we will engage with the local community in a suppliers, employee representatives, constructive and transparent manner, (EHS) Decalogue areas, including operational guidelines have been take sustainability forward in 2014. These investors or local authorities, as detailed and to promote a sense of employee climate change, waste, risk published and will be reviewed included: management and Health and annually to ensure the targets we set through this report. belonging through the provision of • First meeting of our new Sustainability knowledge, involvement and direct Safety1. remain achievable in the economic Council1; At local level we have identified local participation. One initiative that I’m climate ST is operating within. • A review of ST Sustainability strategy authorities and local communities as particularly proud of is the school project Today, it has become increasingly “One day in ST, one day at school” difficult to find additional ways through a new materiality exercise; the highest priority stakeholders. These 1. Detailed results are available in our Employee Safety involving hundreds of students each to continually improve our pages 22-23, Environmental section pages 40 to 53 • Better integration of sustainability within stakeholders are managed directly year. This program has become so performance. In order to reflect and additional indicators pages 67 to 71 ST management systems. by the local Sustainable Excellence popular that each year many schools, this and also to align with our 2. ST 5th EHS Decalogue is available at www.st.com/ehs-decalogue Coordinators and site management due both new and loyal ones, contact me Sustainability strategy, the ST EHS In addition to business benefits and to the range of locations and cultures to participate because they find the Decalogue2 was revised at the end risk mitigation, sustainability also experience so stimulating!” where we operate. drives employee engagement and THE COMPANY Governance Corporate governance structure devote the time required to adequately is currently the sole member of our perform their activities as members of our Managing Board with the function of While STMicroelectronics N.V. is our President and Chief Executive Officer. As Supervisory Board. I 4.7 I 4.10 I parent company, we also conduct described in our Articles of Association, our operations through various Upon the proposal of our Supervisory the member of our Managing Board is subsidiaries, which are consolidated Board, our 2013 Annual General Meeting appointed for a three-year term, which by STMicroelectronics N.V. of Shareholders resolved to abolish and may be renewed one or more times STMicroelectronics N.V. is organized terminate any stock-based compensation upon a non-binding proposal of our under the laws of the Netherlands and its for our Supervisory Board’s members Supervisory Board at a shareholders’ shares are listed on the New York Stock and professionals, which as a result meeting for adoption by a simple majority Exchange (NYSE), Euronext Paris and significantly decreased their total of the votes cast at a shareholders’ Borsa Italiana in Milan. compensation. meeting where at least 15% of the issued In accordance with Dutch laws, we have Ms. Martine Verluyten, who has been a and outstanding share capital is present a two-tier corporate governance system, member of our Supervisory Board since or represented. In accordance with our Our Chief Audit and Risk Executive, Corporate Vice President, Human identified key risks and top priority risk with the management of our company 2012, has also been appointed as the Corporate Governance Charter, the sole Franck Freymond, is the head of Resources and Sustainable areas. being entrusted to a Managing Board Chair of the Audit Committee of our member of our Managing Board, as Corporate Internal Audit. He reports Development, Philippe Brun, reporting under the supervision of a Supervisory Supervisory Board in April 2013. well as our senior managers, may not ST ERM applies a holistic approach and directly to the Audit Committee of to the Chief Strategy Officer, has overall Board. In June 2013, Ms. Janet G. Davidson serve on the board of a public company has been developed to comply with the the Supervisory Board, attends all responsibility for sustainability. Part of his was appointed as a new member of the without the prior approval of our ISO 31000 standard. For information on Audit Committee meetings, has direct remit is to provide sustainability updates Supervisory Board Supervisory Board and she also serves Supervisory Board. I 4.1 I 4.2 I ERM governance see the diagram on interactions with the Chair of the Audit to the CEO and Executives Officers at on the Audit Committee and Strategic page 67. Our Supervisory Board advises our Committee throughout the year and quarterly Corporate Staff Meetings. Committee of our Supervisory Board. Independence of the Corporate Managing Board and supervises the attends executive management quarterly The ST ERM process combines top8 policies pursued by our Managing Board In June 2014 Ms. Heleen Kesten and Internal Audit Organization To strengthen our governance and down and bottom-up approaches: 9 meetings. The current functional fully integrate sustainability within and the general course of our affairs Mr. Maurizio Tamagnini were appointed The Internal Audit function is strictly reporting line and the practices now • Top-down: in 2013, a top-down as new members of our Supervisory all areas of our business, we have and business. Our Supervisory Board independent from Corporate and Local in place ensure the head of Corporate risk assessment refresh exercise Board. Mr. Maurizio Tamagnini was also created a new enhanced Sustainability currently consists of nine members Management. Internal Audit the appropriate level was conducted with executive appointed as the Chairman and Mr. Didier Council. The Council, which has the appointed for a three-year term, of organizational independence and management. The output from this Lombard as the Vice-Chairman of our The mission of Corporate Internal mission to manage the vision, strategy which may be renewed one or more unrestricted access to executive exercise was a top-down risk map, Supervisory Board. Audit, as defined in the ST Internal and governance of sustainability in times in accordance with our Articles management and the Supervisory Board. including top priority risk areas. Risk Audit Charter, which is consistent with ST, consists of 10 Vice Presidents of Association upon a non-binding More information on our Supervisory owners were appointed for each of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) representing activities ranging from proposal of our Supervisory Board at a Board, the composition and roles of Sustainability governance these risk areas in order to develop risk Standards and approved by the Chair of Product Development, Manufacturing shareholders’ meeting for adoption by its Audit Committee, Compensation mitigation action plans, which will be the Audit Committee and the CEO, is as ST manages sustainability in line with and Quality to Sales and Marketing, a simple majority of the votes cast at a Committee, Strategic Committee and reviewed by executive management on follows. the following international guidelines Compliance, Corporate Communications shareholders’ meeting where at least Nominating and Corporate Governance a periodic basis. and standards: International Labor and Investor Relations. One of the first 15% of the issued and outstanding share Committee, the compensation of the Corporate Internal Audit is an • Bottom-up: the bottom-up approach Organization Conventions, United decisions taken by the Council is to capital is present or represented. I 4.1 I members of our Supervisory Board independent function designed to provide aims at embedding risk identification, Nations Global Compact Principles, conduct a new materiality exercise in and their attendance at the meetings objective assurance and consulting Our Supervisory Board has implemented 2014, to take into account the evolution evaluation and management activities of our Supervisory Board as well as our activity, which adds value, improves ST’s United Nations Guiding Principles on criteria to assess the independence of in business priorities and our main at the most effective level within corporate governance practices are operations at all levels, and evaluates and Business and Human Rights, OECD its members, in accordance with the stakeholders’ expectations, and to review each organization. In 2013, selected available in our annual reports (SEC Form promotes compliance with ST’s Standard Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, corporate governance listing standards and update our Sustainability strategy organizations (representative of each “20-F” and Dutch statutory annual report), Operating Procedures and Policies. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition of the New York Stock Exchange. It is accordingly. of ST’s macro organizational areas) which are available on our website and Code of Conduct, ISO 26000, OHSAS also responsible for managing potential Corporate Internal Audit helps ST completed the pilot deployment of can be downloaded at http://investors. 18001, ISO 14001, EMAS, ISO 50001, The updated ST Sustainability or reported conflicts of interest between accomplish its objectives by bringing the bottom-up approach. In 2014, st.com. a systematic, disciplined approach to ISO 14064, QC 080000. Governance Framework is available at the company and its board members or the deployment of this approach Our Corporate Governance Policy, evaluate and improve the effectiveness www.st.com/sustainability-governance senior managers. I 4.6 I Our commitment to these standards is will continue with the objective to Corporate Governance Charter and of risk management, control, and reflected in our Principles for Sustainable implement it within each organization. In accordance with criteria as reflected in Supervisory Board Charter are also Risk management governance processes. Excellence which provides guidelines our Supervisory Board Charter, members available on www.st.com. of our Supervisory Board are carefully Corporate Internal Audit is a key for informing our behavior and decisionThe purpose of Enterprise Risk selected on the basis of their specific component of ST’s governance making. Policies and procedures are then Management is to systematically, Managing Board defined at corporate level, and endorsed consistently and effectively identify, business, financial, technical and/or legal framework and assists the Audit expertise, prior professional experience, Our management is entrusted to the Committee of the Supervisory Board and by our CEO, Carlo Bozotti, to ensure evaluate and manage risks across soundness of judgment, ability to make Managing Board under the supervision of the company’s certifying officers in their effective deployment throughout the the company, including the set-up of analytical enquiries and willingness to our Supervisory Board. Mr. Carlo Bozotti fiduciary duties. company. I 4.8 I effective risk mitigation action plans for THE COMPANY Business Ethics & Compliance At ST, we are committed to conducting • Excellence: we will strive for quality and In accordance with its mission our business with the highest standards customer satisfaction and create value and scope, the CEC may issue of ethics and integrity, as outlined in our for all our partners; we will be flexible, recommendations to the relevant company code of conduct. encourage innovation, develop our organization. competences, seek responsibility and Local ethics committees have been Business ethics and compliance be accountable for our actions; we will formed in recent years in key regions standards act with discipline, base our decisions and countries upon the decision of local on facts and focus on the priorities. management. The CEC is currently We believe that how we carry out our in the process of standardizing and business is as important as what we do. On an annual basis, all managers are also coordinating the roles and responsibilities required to certify they have received, of these committees locally in order details necessary to communicate Information is provided at least framework and improving communication Our company code of conduct sets out read, understood and will abide by our to build a consistent network of ethics with the Ombudsman (toll free phone quarterly to the Audit Committee of the to employees. An update of the the company’s principles in the area of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy. committees. numbers, emails and postal addresses) Supervisory Board, the Corporate Ethics framework was validated by the Audit business conduct and ethics around are available in ST’s Business Conduct Committee and the Certifying Officers, Committee of the Supervisory Board, our Integrity, People and Excellence. These ST’s Corporate Ethics Committee ST’s misconduct reporting and Ethics Policy. which enables its recipients to follow CEO and CFO in late 2013. The global principles are the top-level reference • An internal hotline which ST employees up on the progress and conclusion of deployment of this updated framework is for guiding our behavior and decision(CEC) ST’s misconduct reporting framework are encouraged to use if they require investigations conducted by the relevant expected to be initiated in 2014. making and apply to all directors, officers Our Corporate Ethics Committee (“CEC”) is defined in our code of conduct and functions depending on the nature of the more support to have their issue was formed in 2007 and currently disseminated throughout the company: allegation. Bribery and corruption and employees of ST without exception. properly addressed, or if they have a Business ethics, the respect of human comprises nine senior managers “Every employee plays his or her part in suggestion about our Principles. All 10 All ethical breaches reported through In 2013 we reviewed and updated our 11 rights, environmental responsibility nominated by the CEO. The CEC is how well we adhere to our Principles. emails sent to the hotline are received the Misconduct Reporting Framework, policy regarding bribery and corruption established to provide support to the If you think that our Principles are directly by the Chief Audit and Risk and a sense of responsibility to all our or identified through the internal control and, as a result, we expect to deploy our company’s management in its efforts to being violated, or if you have a problem Executive, the Chief Compliance Officer stakeholders are a matter of personal and monitoring frameworks (including but new anti-corruption and bribery policy foster a company business ethics culture applying them, please discuss with your and the Corporate Vice President integrity for each of us, and compliance not limited to reviews by our Corporate throughout our organizations in 2014. consistent across regions, functions manager, your site Human Resources Human Resources. They are treated in is mandatory. Internal Audit organization), are duly and organizations. In 2013, the Charter manager, or your site manager.” confidence. • Integrity: we will conduct our business assessed. of the CEC was reviewed and updated with the highest ethical standards, to better align its mission towards our In this context, we engender a The update and improvement of ST’s The relevance, criticality and potential honor our commitments, deliver on our company and restate its responsibilities management culture that enables response framework to misconduct impact of each alleged or suspected promises, be loyal and fair and stand and positioning. employees to discuss concerns relating allegations started in 2012 by refining breach are thoroughly examined to to adherence to our Principles in an open the management of allegations received up for what is right. determine the appropriate level of The CEC’s roles and responsibilities manner without fear of recrimination. through any of the above described • People: we will behave with openness, remedial actions. include: channels or sent directly to an ST trust and simplicity; we will be ready • Discussion and evaluation of ST’s In addition, ST employees have two executive. The improvement of the misconduct to share our knowledge, encourage code of conduct, other procedural whistle-blowing channels at their reporting framework continued in 2013 everyone’s contribution, develop documents or initiatives related to disposal: Misconduct allegations are centralized with a view to simplifying the current business ethics as well as ethical • The company Ombudsman’s hotline, by the Chief Audit and Risk Executive. our people through empowerment, teamwork and training; each one of breaches, allegations and related managed by a third party (KPMG), investigations; allows all ST employees worldwide to us will be committed and personally • Issuing guidance on ethical dilemmas; submit their allegations and complaints involved in the continuous improvement Non-compliance / Ethical breaches reporting E-signature of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy (%) • Coordination of the network of local regarding accounting, internal control process. and auditing matters. The contact / SO4 / HR4 / SO4 / HR4 ethics committees (see below). 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of incidents under review at 2012 year end 1 e-signature 94.50 93.90 90.30 93.40 93. 48 Performance against objectives Incidents closed in 2013 by a formal investigation report 0 Incidents closed in 2013 after preliminary assessment 1 • In 2013, update ST anti-corruption and bribery policy, as well as our insider trading Number of incidents reported or identified in 2013 14 policy. Incidents closed in 2013 by a formal investigation report 8 (*) • Improve the integration process between allegation reporting and investigation management. Incidents closed in 2013 after preliminary assessment 2 • Strengthen the Ethics Committee network by formalizing the links and reporting lines Incidents still open as of 2013 year end 4 (**) between the Corporate Ethics Committee and regional ethics committees and by (*) Includes 2 cases pertaining to ST-Ericsson communicating this updated framework to ST employees. (**) Includes 1 case pertaining to ST-Ericsson THE COMPANY quarterly basis, our financial model is based on the life experience of the final consumer, the Financial $2.15 to $2.25 billion of revenues, 36% to 38% growth opportunity for our employees and the gross margin and $600 to $650 million of net return for our shareholders. operating expenses. Exiting 2013, our expenses Second, as a part of this transformation in 2013, have been totally consistent with our financial we exited the business of ICs for wireless model as well as our growth and innovation & Extra-Financial platforms. The closure of our JV with Ericsson strategy, as we have been re-investing about was fast and relatively smooth in respect to 30% of our revenues in Research & both its social and financial consequences. Development and Capital Expenditure. Indeed, Indeed, the impact on jobs and the cost of the ST’s financial objectives are based on growing exit have been much lower than originally Performance revenues and accelerating product innovation. anticipated. In fact, about 1,000 former This aims at creating value for all stakeholders.” ST-Ericsson personnel are now contributing to How does ST’s financial model impact the acceleration of growth in ST’s core employees in the various geographies in which businesses. The closure also saw the transfer of ST operates? about 1,800 people to Ericsson to continue the “Our financial model targets a sustainable development of ST-Ericsson’s most innovative return through growth and innovation. platform and a number of deals with third Financial performance More particularly, in terms of products we The Sustainability report is designed to parties offered the opportunity to continue We target to outperform our served markets, focus on five growth drivers, expected communicate comprehensive business leveraging on the unique set of employee’s certain activities with a new owner: good for ST, Performance 2013 to bring solid growth rates driven by information to our stakeholders. We Interview with competences and ST’s Intellectual Properties good for the buyer, good for the employees and secular trends and alignment with our report 129 indicators, explain our which fit the fast growing applications in the good for the territories involved. ST 2013 net revenue was US$ 8.08 Carlo Ferro market-leading positions and competitive management approach and document semiconductor market such as the «Internet of Overall, when disruption occurs, which is often billion, a 4.8% decrease on 2012, advantages: many local projects and initiatives to Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice things» or automotive. This means developing the case in today’s world, it is possible to find a mainly reflecting lower Wireless Product President Finance, Legal, Infrastructure competences across our 45,000 employees and • Automotive Products, which make demonstrate our sites’ commitment to win-win solution that includes financially wise Segment (former ST-Ericsson products) and Services nurturing know-how in the 35 countries where actions and continues the development of key sales. Excluding the Wireless product driving safer, greener and more sustainability. This is complemented by ST operates.” In the frame of ST’s new strategy, please competences and their contribution to the local line, our revenues increased 3.2%, a entertaining; our sustainability webpages that provide eco-systems.” describe the Company’s financial model? How did ST deploy its financial model in 2013? better performance than the SAM, with • Digital Consumer and ASIC Products, detailed descriptions of our policies and “Our financial model confirms our aim of “First, we redefined ST’s strategy on a focused the main contributions coming from which power the augmented digital actions on a more regular basis. sustainable growth and targets about 10% product portfolio, selected based on the value our microcontrollers and automotive lifestyle; operating margin starting mid-2015. On a to our customer, the contribution to augment We continue to maintain a strong position products. We also made good progress • MEMS and Sensors, which augment in major sustainability indices, and have on our customer diversification, mass the consumer experience; improved our standing in some of them. market and distribution initiatives, with • Microcontrollers, which make We set up a task force to look at how to NetNet revenues byby location no customers above 10% of total everything smarter and more secure; strengthen our Sustainability program, ST key figures / EC1 revenues locationofoforder order shipment* shipment* / EC1 / 2.7 • Smart Power, which makes more of our / EC1 / 2.7 revenues and an increase of revenues and after two years of non-inclusion in 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 12 in distribution, which was up by energy resources. Greater China-South 13 the Dow Jones Sustainability Index we Net revenues (US$m) 8,082 Americas: 15.1% 8,510 10,346 9,735 8,493 Asia: 42.1% approximately three percentage points, We continued to work towards meeting have been included once again in the reaching a 26% share of total revenues. Gross profit (US$m) 2,626 4,015 3,574 2,783 2,614 our target financial model, including DJSI STOXX Europe in 2013. We also Our operating losses were US$ 465 attaining an operating margin of about improved our OEKOM rating from B to Gross profit as a 30.90 38.80 36.70 32.80 32.30 million in 2013 compared with US$ 2,081 10% expected by mid-2015. This will B+ and continue to be ranked in the percentage of sales (%) Japan-Korea: million losses suffered in 2012. be achieved through a combination FTSE4GOOD and VIGEO indices. Net earnings (US$m) (1,131) 830 650 (1,158) (500) 18.6% This improvement was achieved through of revenue growth, gross margin Earnings per share (1.29) 0.92 0.72 (1.31) (0.56) a reduction in operating expenses and improvement and management of net Speed and Agility program (diluted) (US$) lower impairment charges. expenses. Following the 2012 Employee Market share versus TAM 3.76 3.47 3.21 2.87 2.60 Engagement survey, in 2013 ST launched (%) (Total Available Market) Execution of our new strategy Extra-financial performance Speed and Agility, an efficiency program, In 2013, we made solid progress in ST views recognition of extraidentified as a business priority by our Operating income and cash flow / EC1 executing the strategy we announced in financial performance through Socially President and CEO. EMEA: 24.2% December 2012, but we still have much Responsible Investment rating agencies 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The aim of the program is to simplify (*) Net revenues by location of order shipment are classified by location to accomplish. We completed the splitand analysts’ evaluations as an Operating income (465) processes that are perceived as being (1,023) 476 46 (2,081) of customer invoiced or reclassified by shipment destination in line up of the ST-Ericsson joint venture in a opportunity to better understand our with customer demand. For example, products ordered by U.S.-based time-consuming, complex or causing Net operating cash flow 227* 972 (278) 34 (179) companies to be invoiced to Greater ChinaSouth Asia affiliates are timely manner, and by integrating some performance, benchmark against our classified as Greater China-South Asia revenues. Furthermore, the potential business delays. ST identified comparison among the different periods may be affected by shifts in of their employees into the business we peers and identify areas for further five key processes to be streamlined, (*) Excluding net proceeds received in business combination (Ericsson Mobile Platform) which totalled shipment from one location to another, as requested by our customers. strengthened our product development improvement. US$1,137m including purchasing, supply chain and teams. Our strategy takes into account Investors request qualitative and hiring. the evolution of the markets we are in quantitative information from ST on a and the environment and opportunities In 2014, more than 15 workshops are wide range of topics, some of which we predict in the years to come. It is planned for local managers from job ST inclusion in the main sustainability indices may not currently be a business priority. based on leadership positions within our grade 19 and above, to ensure the Implementing a successful Sustainability Ethibel two product segments, Sense & Power successful implementation of the five DJSI FTSE ECPI Index series FTSE4GOOD Euronext Vigeo strategy involves making choices about Sustainability ECPI (Italy) Total and Automotive (SP&A) and Embedded newly streamlined processes. (USA) (Italy) (United-Kingdom) (France) which issues are most material to the Index (Belgium) Processing Solutions (EPS). Each business and ensuring we remain (For more information on this program, ECPI Global FTSEFTSEEuronext Euronext Euronext Euronext DJSI ECPI EMU ECPI Euro FTSE ECPI Italia FTSE ECPI Italia segment is supported by the global Sales focused on these areas. However, we see page 16). ESI Excellence Developed 4GOOD 4GOOD Vigeo Vigeo Vigeo Vigeo Europe Ethical Ethical SRI benchmark SRI Leaders & Marketing organization with a particular Europe ESG Best in Europe Global World Europe Eurozone Benelux Stoxx Equity Equity index index 13 do carefully consider any new topic Class Equity index index 120 120 120 20 focus on our major accounts, as well raised to ensure they are not key risks or as on expanding our penetration of the 2013 x x x x x x x x x x x x x opportunities we have yet to identify. mass market. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 Our People Our management approach • ST Human Resources Policy describes our approach to managing the basic rights, health, safety, well-being and development of everyone that works for ST • 23 of our sites, including all our manufacturing sites, are OHSAS 18001 certified • ST Environmental Health and Safety Decalogue sets out commitments related to Health and Safety • ST has been committed to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct since 2005 For more information, see www.st.com/our-people 14 15 Key results Average major non-conformances ST recordable cases rate 92% by EICC audit was decreased by of ST employees 24% brought down from went through 3.5 to 1.4 a formal 2013 vs. 2012 performance appraisal process OUR PEOPLE Focus Recruitment, Learning ST-Ericsson employee integration Former ST-Ericsson employees mainly from the sites of Agrate, and Development Catania, Grenoble, Le Mans, Prague, Rabat and Rennes joined ST in August in the wake of the closure of the ST-Ericsson joint venture. These new employees were deployed primarily to reinforce our product development in the new strategic growth areas where we have significant opportunities, such as Automotive, Microcontrollers, Smart Power, MEMS and Sensors and Digital Consumer. They also strengthen marketing and customer support in the EMEA region and various support functions across ST. These employees bring expertise in architecture, analog and digital design, test and product engineering, embedded software development, system integration ST People strategy contributes to Learning and Development workshops, networking and top and power management. They also bring their knowledge and ST’s sustainable business success by management exposure. Mentoring is anticipating and developing people We continued the deployment of the key experience of Android systems. To ensure their successful integration also an integral part of this program, as engagement and organizational programs in place: into the company we developed a tailored induction process with the it offers mentees support during critical performance. We create the conditions • Technical Staff community (463 support of our senior managers. stages of their career development, for all ST employees to contribute to members): as part of our innovation and an independent view when the company business, to innovate and and R&D development strategy, we required. On their side, mentors are continuously improve the way we lead launched an intranet site dedicated to through empowerment, teamwork, recognized as positive role models, networking and knowledge sharing. learning and development. This also for their personal and professional We also invited all ST exempts to Internal mobility The successful pilot in Italy will enable implies agility in addressing requirements achievements. participate in a survey on the worldwide deployment to our top To maintain a dynamic workforce in terms of staffing, competencies and Thanks to these initiatives, we have performance appraisal process. More technical experts in 2014. All ST and create employee development performance. built a committed community of than 75% of people who answered the employees can access the profiles opportunities, we recently revised our mentors, whose contribution we survey are satisfied with the performance of Technical Staff, their patents, internal mobility standard operating 2013 highlights publications and lectures, enabling are counting on for future people appraisal process and consider that it development initiatives. fulfils its purpose concerning the procedure which facilitates transfers, Employee recruitment talent identification or collaboration encourages job rotation and reinforces • Business development is one of assessment of the previous year’s results, 2013 was a particularly challenging year offers. This fosters cross-fertilization the requirement to offer positions our top Learning and Development setting new objectives and job 16 and innovation to strengthen ST’s internally. 17 in terms of recruitment. We successfully priorities. In 2013 several workshops accountabilities as well as short-term integrated approximately 1,000 former technological competitive advantage. Manoj Kumar were carried out, one per sales region, performance and its improvement. And Senior Group Manager, ST-Ericsson employees into our critical • Development boosters have been Looking forward to 2014 focusing on either key accounts for more than 80% feel their managers care ST Central Labs, business and R&D activities. We also successfully deployed for 214 of business growth, on how to capture about the performance management Workforce management will now be Greater Noida (India) took the difficult decision to close our our key talents worldwide, notably new markets or on the related process and deploy it seriously. supported by quarterly monitoring, Bristol, Ottawa and Toronto offices, and in France, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, to deploy partial redundancy plans in necessary skills. A specific workshop evaluating staffing needs and appropriate “The concept of mentoring at senior Malaysia, Singapore and the We were able to identify, from ratings some other sites, including our Geneva to support the strategic mass market training plans by country and by level is new in ST Greater Noida. I was Philippines. These company-wide and answers to open questions, a quite afraid to take it up when told headquarters. ST exceeded minimum initiative was launched in Europe. organization. Our objective is that each programs target our high-potential number of shortand medium-term first, even if I was keen. I believe it is legal requirements to support employees Other new courses such as pricing ST organization is aligned with the exempt employees and aim at opportunities for improvement, some of a very serious job that must be done affected by these plans, for their next strategy and marketing communication execution of the quarterly workforce plan. with utmost care or not done at all. career moves. Overall, at end 2013 we accelerating their development, which have already been addressed and were successfully deployed to some of Various discussions on the concepts had increased ST headcount by over retaining and engaging them. These implemented. For example, increased To develop management empowerment our Product Groups, aiming to enable involving other mentors, managers of 600 people compared to end 2012. booster programs include training, awareness and communication on the and agility, we are also simplifying the job mentees and meetings with the mentee marketers to improve margin and capture new opportunities. role of managers to give high-quality requisition process. convinced me about the usefulness of this program. It requires the mentor to feedback and improve employee carefully analyze the information shared development and performance. by the mentee, and his vision, and to Performance against objectives 92% of ST employees suggest the right alternative(s) without being intrusive or getting too involved. • Internal mobility: increase the percentage of open positions for exempts filled by internal went through a formal Employees with a formal individual development plan (%) / LA12 It also changes the mentor during the candidates to reach a minimum of 40% in 2013 and 50% in 2015. performance appraisal process as the organization places a process 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 tremendous amount of responsibility in • Ensure that more than 50% of employees have a development plan, linked to their annual his/her hands. This provides a sense of performance. Exempts 51.5 69.4 44.5 26.5 21.7 privilege to both mentor and mentee. Performance management Others 19.0 17.3 15.5 It also reminds the mentors of their own • Development: ensure that more than 95% of ST exempts have their potential assessed learning process with or without the every two years through ‘People Review’ process*. In 2013, 92% of our employees benefice of a mentor. Finally, it provides went through a formal performance Internal mobility for exempt positions (%) a mentor a live example, allowing him/ • Increase by 5% ST’s Technical Staff community recognized through Technical Advisory her to continue to engage, understand Committees. assessment with their management, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and analyze the mentee’s possible covering their job accountabilities, evolution.” • Increase employee retention: percentage of direct employees with more than two years % of jobs advertised priorities for the year, competency 17.92 40.54 36.75 34.86 33.17 service. internally and expected behavior. • Learning: ensure that more than 60% of employees follow at least 8 hours training yearly*. % of jobs filled 22.95 25.88 39.71 internally (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PEOPLE Employee Engagement Employee engagement is a critical Development team members. collaborates with other organizations to driver of organizational and company The outcomes were shared at meet common goals. performance to achieve superior organization and HR management level. Sharing information Focus business results. The feedback provided by the engagement survey is a unique Speed & Agility Our top management increased their opportunity for ST to respond by making Based on our last engagement survey, level of communication with their continuous improvements to the working environment and for managers to the CEO and the senior management team decided to simplify some key teams by holding regular management meetings, round tables in small groups STAR recognition improve their effectiveness, identifying processes in order to improve business and site hall meetings organized by our where and how they can act to improve The yearly company recognition There are also special mentions for effectiveness and re-engage our Executive and Corporate Vice Presidents. process, defined in the “Corporate shop floor teams. business results with their team. employees. This initiative is based on In some cases, top management calls Claude Morant Recognition Procedure” On a yearly basis ST holds a In 2013 we did not run an employee the following principles applied to senior were recorded and made available to (SOP) recognizes outstanding Rousset site & Operations director corporate recognition ceremony survey, but completed the action management and each organization or everyone on the company intranet. On 2011 April 2014 (France) achievements of individuals and where prizes and certificates are plan from our previous survey, which site manager: an operational level, managers continue Crolles Operations Director since May teams throughout the company. handed out to individuals and teams. included communicating our new • Transparency and visibility; to cascade company information and 2014 (France) For individuals: ABCD “Above and In addition, sites also hold local strategy, differentiating and aligning • Empowerment and trust; strategy through their organizations on Beyond the Course of Duty” awards ceremonies to celebrate awards 18 “Employee Engagement is a key factor of 19 rewards, developing managers, • Simplification and predictability; a monthly or quarterly basis. recognize people selected by their granted to their employees. quality productivity on a site. In Rousset, simplifying our processes and running • Speed and accountability. own organization. we favor both the sense of belonging more improvement workshops with key (For more information on this program, Local initiatives and the fulfilment of people at work. For teams: any team or workgroup organizations. see page 13). Every year we run an “Applications fitting the criteria can apply through Sites are very active in organizing events week”, an event which gives employees all year round which favor employee’s their organization contact and a unique opportunity to discover the Tailored workshops Revised survey questionnaire sense of belonging and motivation. latest applications of products designed, compete to win an award across six categories aligned with the Four organizations were chosen to run Several events are detailed on our developed and manufactured in Rousset. A dedicated taskforce was created In 2013 we counted more than 1000 company’s annual priorities. the workshops: two Product Groups, a pages “Employees Health and Wellto analyze and improve our employee visitors during the 22 hours of demo The nominations are assessed by Sales & Marketing region and a support being” (pages 24-25) and “Community survey questionnaire which is now sessions organized for all shifts (day a jury composed of experts in the group. Each group organized several Involvement” (pages 58-59). and night). There were seven stands more succinct and includes collective relevant category. Winners receive half day workshops for two or three parameters to measure ST organizations’ representing all site Divisions, the gold, silver or bronze awards. The of their teams across a range of sites. agility and quality, i.e. their capacity to Looking forward to 2014 characterization analysis laboratory and CEO selects one of the six gold the electrical test. 114 demonstrators The workshops which gathered exempt anticipate and then lead change. Another winners to receive the “CEO award”. Our objective remains to deploy action animated the events. “Applications employees at middle management level, set of new questions was designed to week” is a fantastic occasion for plans aimed at leveraging employee focused on areas rated as in need of measure goal alignment, how effectively exchanges and interactions between engagement at local and corporate level. improvement in previous surveys. Top each organization aligns its objectives all categories of employees. They can The next employee survey, which will better understand their implication and management launched the sessions, to those of the company and how it include the new questionnaire, will be contribution in the product life cycle which were mediated by Learning and Communication meetings conducted at the end of 2014. and are reminded of the innovation and high-level of quality our end-customers 2011 2012 2013 require. This year we also improved social wellNumber of employees who attended meetings with Performance against objectives 28,343 36,474 38,688 being and interpersonal relationships via Executive Vice Presidents / Corporate Vice Presidents* monthly events during the “Marseille(*) Can include more than one attendance per employee over the year. • Annually increase the percentage of employees who demonstrate the highest level of Provence 2013, European Capital of discretionary effort. Culture”. On site, the artistic talents of our employees were revealed through • Increase ST employee engagement relative to the benchmark. varied artistic workshops, exhibitions and contests (painting, music, literature, • Following engagement surveys, action plans to address key expectations should be photo, sculpture, handicrafts, fashion), defined and communicated in 100% of organizations. and we offered them conferences on art and a music festival. ST Rousset • 50% of action plans should be implemented on an annual basis*. also partnered with local initiatives, (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 reinforcing our regional visibility and our link with local communities.” More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PEOPLE Focus Labor and ST is an active member of the EDH association*, Entreprises pour les Droits de l’Homme, which aims to promote the integration of a respect for human rights Human Rights throughout the activities of its eight corporate members‘ activities, wherever they do business. EDH’s approach is one of continuous improvement with a focus on sharing good practices. Through our membership we were involved in EDH’s co-development of the human rights awareness training The context and our commitment the EICC Code of Conduct focuses on • The EICC Auditor course providing for managers which raises awareness of human rights human trafficking, supplier management advanced skills relating to the impleissues in the workplace and systematically builds human ST is committed to respecting our and conflict minerals. As ST uses the mentation of the EICC Code, rights considerations into managerial decision-making. workers’ rights and continuously EICC Code of Conduct to set out the specifically its Labor section which improving labor conditions in all our opecore principles to be followed by our In addition, we contributed to the EDH’s Guide for the covers working hours, forced labor, rations. As a large international company, sites and suppliers, we are dedicated Implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business our business relies on a large workforce child labor, humane treatment and to their implementation throughout our and Human rights. and our commitment to them is key for grievance procedures. operations. our success. We also aim to increase our (*) For more information on EDH, visit their website: http://e-dh.org customers’ trust and confidence, so that Collaboration with the academic we remain a partner of choice for all our 2013 main actions sector stakeholders. Working hours Throughout 2013 ST worked on a project As a signatory of the UN Global Compact The management of working hours is a with KEDGE Business School1 in which we strive to progressively integrate all recognized challenge in the electronics six Chinese students analyzed the issue EICC Audit program results Major non-conformances relevant guidelines relating to human and industry and is consequently one of of human rights in the electronics sector. labor rights into our management system The students have provided a summary 2011 2012 2013 our main focus areas when it comes to such as the UN Guiding Principles on ensuring implementation of our code of of human rights best practices that will Number of audits 2 4 5 Business and Human Rights, the OECD conduct. In 2013, we put in place an be used to inspire future actions. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Working hours 2 4 4 and ISO 26000. automatic tracking tool in our priority Looking forward to 2014 Occupational injury and illness 3 1 manufacturing sites which provides 20 21 us with reliable evidence of real hours Wages and benefits 1 1 1 Average major Our priorities for 2014 will be to reinforce worked in order to improve compliance Emergency preparedness non-conformances in EICC the management of Corrective Action 2 in this area. audits was brought down Plans in our audit programs to ensure a Xi Xin Freely chosen employment 1 from 3.5 to 1.4 sustainable result, and the reinforcement Group leader of Corporate Project Supplier responsibility 1 Training STMicroelectronics and Human Rights of training for the Human Resources KEDGE Business School (France) Child labor avoidance 1 Our HR and Sustainable Excellence community. ST is an active member of the Electronics Non-discrimination 1 community is a key enabler of good labor Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) “The project specifically addressed practices at our sites. In 2013 we trained 1. Formerly Euromed Management Hazardous substances 1 1 which promotes social, environmental the importance of integrating human and economic responsibility in the them on: rights into companies such as Machine safeguarding 1 electronics industry supply-chain through • Worker-Management Communication STMicroelectronics and how to do it right. addressing work relations, The project was organized jointly by the Occupational safety 1 multi-stakeholder engagement and communication and employee rights; school and ST. Our group of six students Protection of identity 1 standards setting. The latest revision of worked nearly six months on it. We found that human rights are not only a Fair business, advertising and competition significant subject but also become a key Food, sanitation and housing performance indicator for corporations Performance against objectives Corrective action process all over the world. We also checked and analyzed ST’s status and gave our own Responsibility and accountability • Ensure 100% of ST manufacturing sites and corporate departments update their EICC recommendations. ST actually has some Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) on an annual basis. sound human resource policies in terms Legal and customer requirements of human rights, and fully implementing • Ensure that ST manufacturing sites and corporate departments continuously improve Air emissions and improving these policies will be the the global scoring of ST’s EICC SAQs. future work for ST. The project was very Business integrity interesting for all the group members. • Ensure 100% of ST Asian and Back-end sites are audited every two years versus Freedom of association It gave us another perspective to the EICC Code of Conduct. understand and interpret businesses of EICC Code awareness • Ensure that our audited sites have 0 major non-conformance on the labor and health nowadays.” Total 7 14 7 and safety section. Average major NC/audit 3.5 3.5 1.4 • Ensure all our sites deploy communication and training programs on the EICC Code of Conduct for all their managers and employees*. • Ensure that all ST organizations deploy the HR Policy through their top page and monitor their compliance. (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PEOPLE Focus Employee Who wants to be a millionaire? All our sites compete to be safety millionaires. This year’s winners are Safety Calamba (the Philippines) and Kirkop (Malta)! At the end of 2013 Kirkop had achieved an incredible 22 million hours worked without a single recordable case. Their last recordable case was in January 2007. In second place was Calamba with a total of 10 million hours since their last recordable case in April 2011. 2013 highlights an average of 6.4 training hours per with features such as sharing of best These fantastic achievements are the direct results of the excellent employee (exceeding our target of four practices and awards. safety culture which is embedded throughout the sites. 2013 was a year of focus and hours). Training included: improvement for ST in terms of safety. At group level we have strongly • E-learning for managers, with a focus ST remains amongst the best-in-class encouraged sites and group directors on leadership attitude (involvement and in our industry demonstrating a continual to include safety in their meetings and decrease in our recordable case rate, commitment); Operation Reviews. Recordable cases rate benchmarks* LA7 / Dec. 9.1 for both on-site domestic and industrial • Basic EHS training for new and nonRecordable cases rate benchmarks* LA7 / 9.1 recordable cases, for several years. manufacturing populations; • Evacuation drills for all employees (we Improvement of EHS audits, visits 5 A key driver of this progress was ST’s reached 89% coverage); and processes 4.40 4.40 US manufacturing (Source BLS**) commitment to the new corporate 4.30 4.30 program announced in our 2012 • First-aid training; The number of field inspections, visits ALL US semiconductor (Source BLS**) • Fire training with use of extinguishers; 4 Sustainability report which promoted and audits increased by 55% compared SIA*** OHS actions on five key pillars. • Training on specific risks such as to 2012, resulting in increased quality chemicals, lock-out tag-out, electrical of detection and reporting of hazards, ST 24% in ST recordable and fork-lift truck. unsafe acts and conditions and near3 (*) Latest data available. We also held two safety seminars for misses. Adopting a proactive approach (**) Bureau of Labor Statistics. cases rate (***) Semiconductor Industry Association. 45% in ST severity rate general managers of manufacturing sites and building a strong health and Cedric Labartino in Asia and Europe, with cascade to their safety culture helps reduce all types of 2 Safety Manager, Crolles (France) direct reports on manufacturing sites. incidents, including the more serious 22 ones. 23 Deployment of new safety KPIs In addition, we created a workspace 1.00 1.20 1.10 1.20 “It is a satisfaction for me, and the team, Once again we met our target for 1 0.90 0.90 to obtain this very good achievement We deployed a new safety KPI matrix for dedicated to EHS training on the 0.80 maintaining our annual OHSAS 18001 that the training courses we developed 8 key areas, with quarterly reporting. This company intranet. were well deployed. I had a lot of 0.35 0.29 0.29 0.27 certifications with renewal confirmed for enabled us to get a deeper insight into contacts with the sites, explained the Strengthen sites EHS resources 23 sites. 0 needs and motivation, and the impact specific weaknesses and best practices, training can have for developing and to further improve existing programs Note: since Q4 2013, our EHS remit has 09 10 11 12 We strengthened our ‘on the ground 20 20 20 20 skills and awareness of people and and practices, such as unsafe acts and been extended to cover four former STcommitment’ to safety by encouraging strengthening safety culture. conditions detection, field inspections Ericsson sites as well as the former STRecordable Cases rate Severity rate We discussed our vision, their site risk management at our sites to increase by management, incident root causes Ericsson employees taken on in existing LA7 / Dec. 9.1cases rate (%) / LA7 / Recordable 9.1 Severity rate LA7 / Dec. 9.3(%) / LA7 / 9.3 and job hazard analysis matrix to define the number of people in charge of analysis, job hazard analysis, safety goals ST sites. or adapt their training plans. EHS. We aim to have a dedicated EHS 0,5 10 This focus and collaboration enabled in MBO (Management by Objectives), representative at large sites and an HR us to reinforce the sites’ plans and trainings, communication and audits. person taking responsibility for EHS at Looking forward to 2014 consequently to exceed our training This also contributes to improve target. smaller sites. In 2014 we aim to build on our 2013 0,4 8 recordable cases and other incidents 0.35 I found all our exchanges very results and further optimize performance enriching. Interfacing with sites EHS, HR root cause analysis. Reinforcement of safety against our KPIs. A dedicated work or training managers is key. It facilitates 0.29 0.29 Reinforcement of training communication group was launched in February 2014 to 0,3 0.27 6 and promotes cross fertilization. We can capture and share best practices identify the key focus areas for each of At corporate level we have disseminated 4.6 whether from manufacturing sites or We conducted 260,000 hours of EHS our sites. 0.21 4.2 others, later proposing and deploying safety communications through a training, with an emphasis on the 0,2 4 common actions or modules.” newsletters and poster campaign manufacturing population. This means 3.1 2.6 2.4 SAFETY 0,1 2 FIRST Performance against objectives ST’s poster collection communicates our safety culture in an eye-catching and • Continuously reduce work-related injuries and memorable way with slogans such as 0 0 illnesses rate (recordable case rate) and severity “Don’t learn safety by accident”, “See it, 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 13 rate by 5% per year. report it, correct it”, “Think safe, work safe, • Ensure ST employees have an average of four be safe” and “Your safety doesn’t depend EHS Decalogue target: EHS Decalogue target: hours of training and awareness per year on on... LUCK! It depends on... YOU!” -10% per year 2002-2010 and -5% from 2011 -10% per year 2002-2010 and -5% from 2011 environment, health and safety (EHS) topics. Don’t learn Recordable cases rate Severity rate safety by accident More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PEOPLE Employee Health and Well-being We are committed to ensuring the wellTwo sites with comprehensive and well-being to enable employees to being of our employees both during, increase their productivity and contribute and outside of work, through promoting programs: to achieving company goals. Wellness a work-life balance, high-quality working In Ang Mo Kio (Singapore), the site programs are developed around three conditions, access to healthcare and providing of a wide range of personal Health Plan, now in its seventh year, provides: service pillars and are managed by a team of expert healthcare professionals: Focus services at ST locations. • Free medical treatment and medicine; 2013 highlights • An in-house doctor’s clinic; Patient care – an array of healthcare services managed by a team of expert inConcierges • 24 hour support from company nurses; house medical professionals who provide On site-services or concierges are car wash and repairs, convenience At corporate level, we continue to take • A sponsored comprehensive health holistic patient and employee care. an example of locally led initiatives shops and even a roof top club care of the health and well-being of all screening conducted monthly; our employees whatever their location or where sites identify and provide a house. • Free annual Executive Health type of job. Eva Kulhankova range of practical employee services Screening for senior managers; Our sites in China, France, Germany, HR Manager Eastern Europe & Middle East and amenities. In 2013, the typical Our Health Plan provides our employees • Benefits to employees towards their India, Italy, Malta, Singapore, 24 Prague (Czech Republic) services offered included: canteen 25 with a very high-level of medical care. medical, dental or optical expenses; Switzerland, the Philippines and facilities, vending machines, ATM In addition to regular medical check• A hospital and surgical insurance UK provide the most advanced “The health program is specific for services, post and courier services, ups, we offer many other specific scheme for employees; services. Our network of Sustainable each country. In Poland, Russia and tickets and coupons, access to examinations, including blood analyzes, Turkey where the public health system Excellence Coordinators help to • Workmen’s compensation insurance sporting activities such as team audiometric tests, ophthalmologic is not offering good health care, ST globally disseminate new concierge for employees injured, either inside or sports, dancing and yoga as well exams, cancer prevention screening and is covering employees with health service ideas which are then outside of work. as access to showers. Some sites vaccinations. insurance scheme. In Hungary and adapted locally by sites. Czech Republic we focus on regular also offer counselling and hot lines, The site also organizes events throughout lectures, electric bicycles, laundry, In 2013, more than 58,000 medical Occupational health – a mandatory prevention health check-ups that include the year to encourage employees to also specific tests linked to the employee examinations were conducted service that assures the company’s adopt a healthier and more active position like ophthalmologic exams, worldwide, including more than 12,000 compliance with statutory and screening tests. We target prevention lifestyle. physiotherapeutic screening. One of international social and labor laws. the prevention program organized in by encouraging employees to take part Health Plan Medical examinations Prague is regular sport exercises focused Wellness – a menu of first-class services 58,000 in local promotional campaigns to quit on problems with the spine and first smoking, participate in sport and eat More than that aims to promote and maintain a high Exam type 2009 2010* 2011 2012 2013 aid hands on training. I got several healthily. medical examinations degree of physical, mental and social feedbacks on how the health program Medical examinations 50,295 69,180 70,480 60,216 43,411 Where regulations ensure that a very conducted worldwide well-being of employees to help balance helped employees’ health.” Check up with a physician 20,687 32,472 35,689 34,604 19,645 high-level of medical care is handled work-life harmony. outside ST, specific attention is put on Blood analyses (including CHEWS received an internal STAR 12,287 17,344 15,954 11,986 10,987 In Calamba (the Philippines), the biomonitoring tests**) ergonomics and recommendations given Comprehensive Health and Employees’ Bronze award in ST’s Annual Recognition by our medical experts. Chest X rays 7,205 9,763 8,881 5,624 5,782 Wellness Services (CHEWS) has been awards in 2012. Our sites also run regular local events Colorectal cancer immuocult test 851 523 966 310 277 developed to improve employee health and campaigns throughout the year. Electrocardiograms 5,257 5,728 5,497 4,682 4,427 Mammography 1,138 1,080 1,094 1,026 760 Pap smear tests 2,084 1,691 1,586 1,572 1,198 Performance against objectives Prostate cancer screening 786 579 813 412 335 Screening test 11,923 10,958 13,097 8,837 12,438 •P romote employees’ health and well-being through local initiatives and campaigns. Immunization 4,347 3,505 3,019 2,234 2,153 •E xpand and promote the well-being services offered to employees at ST sites to facilitate Total services provided 66,565 83,643 86,596 71,287 58,002 day-to-day life. (*) 2010 results slightly modified in 2011 after adjustments communicated by some sites. •E nsure 100% of employees have benefited from the health plan by the end of 2013. (**) These tests are dedicated to employees working in manufacturing areas (and especially on some specific maintenance operations). More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PEOPLE Focus Global Diversity and ST Women’s Network Our ST Agrate (Italy) and Grenoble (France) sites organized live Equal Opportunity events to promote our global ST Women’s Network launched on Women’s Day. During these events, women on site could exchange directly with our CEO and women in key management positions. The Network’s objective is to help each ST department create a culture that enables women to realize their career potential, progress within the company and receive better recognition for their achievements. The Network was piloted by a committee of approximately 40 women from a range of backgrounds across the business and now comprises over 700 members, including ST remains committed to ensuring equal employees’ professional and personal is to address the difficulties faced by men. Throughout the year, the Network worked on benchmarking, opportunities at all levels of the company experience, and optional part-time disabled employees at work. We have improving access to senior positions, communication and and avoiding any discrimination based on contracts to ease the transition into put in place a ‘barometer’ to measure the promotional events at ST sites, as well as developing a coaching gender, age, race and disability, striving retirement. satisfaction rate of our employees with to go above and beyond national legal disabilities to identify where we could and mentoring program for women. In France, there is also a mobility requirements. We are sensitive to local improve their life at work. A package program where employees reaching the culture and customs and always take of leaflets with operational information end of their career can benefit from a these into account when developing and advice was prepared by the HR one-year outplacement in a local SME, FCEM visits our Rousset site • Sick leave for child medicare: the program on women safety was run with diversity and equality strategies. department for all managers on site, allowing them to share their extensive sick leave policy was amended a facilitator. It aimed to make women feel to help them envisage the integration In April, the FCEM (World Association of experience and knowledge within small to accommodate the additional more empowered and able to protect 2013 highlights of a disabled person in their team. In Women Entrepreneurs), held their 61st and medium sized local businesses. challenges women face during early themselves. Specific workshops for the manufacturing, such integration has committee in Marseille for four days. The Gender diversity remains a challenge for motherhood. Mothers now have the daughters and wives of our employees proved a success, and the participating committee addresses how women can our sector. On International Women’s right to use ten days of their sick leave were also organized to complete this teams are ready to welcome and support positively influence the global market. ST day, ST was recognized by Vigeo, a ST France put in place a more colleagues with difficulties. per year when their child is sick, up initiative. Rousset site was one of two companies sustainability ratings agency, for our ‘barometer’ to measure until the child’s third birthday. An increasing number of administrative, the committee visited providing ST with leading approach to the prevention of the satisfaction rate of our an opportunity to share its knowledge • Check-up camp: a special talk and Harmony at BHQ (Singapore) gender discrimination and the promotion courier, mailing, minutes-taking in official check-up camp was organized for employees with disabilities meetings and printing activities are now of the semiconductor market and the ST teams are spread worldwide and of diversity. women to discuss a wide range of 26 sub-contracted to local Institutions and industry challenges women face. promoting cross cultural awareness is a 27 health issues. Globally, we now employ almost 600 services of ‘help through work’ (ESATs) strong component of the way we work. • Photo essay “The Amazing Spirit”: a disabled people, representing 1.30% of Disability and equality programs that employ people with disabilities. Women’s programs in India limited edition photo-essay was created At Ang Mo Kio BHQ, we support the our workforce in 2013 (against 1.28% in France Orange Ribbons Celebrations in July. In India, several women’s programs were with the support of the site photo club in 2012). This is a signature movement adopted by In France, the disability program implemented in 2013: “Aperture” with the aim of capturing the the city state in 2008 to promote racial continues with multiple actions aimed essence of the women of ST India”. • Enhanced motherhood facilitation and religious harmony. Over the past Age diversity at easing working conditions and also leave: after consultation with managers Moreover, further to the December two years, we have rallied staff and their Our commitment to young people integrating disabled people with other and site support services, maternity 2012 rape and fatal assault case in the families to participate in the campaign. In is managed through our multiple employees. The handicap agreement, leave was extended by two weeks to country that generated widespread July, about 70 staff members attended partnerships with R&D and academic renewed for the period 2013-2015, fourteen weeks for a smoother return national and international coverage, the local event with their families and institutions (see page 60). represents a solid framework for our to work. special safety awareness workshops on friends to support the national movement actions in this domain and sets out our self-defense were organized. A tailored on racial harmony. Many of our sites have specific plans in long-term engagement plans. place to manage employees reaching the Gender split by category / LA13 (%) end of their career. The programs include For example, our ST Rousset (France) Chieko Kamiya Women in management / LA13 Gender split by category (%) / LA13 mentoring and knowledge transfer, site launched the ‘successful integration HR & Administration 80 2009 2010 2011* 2012 2013 which allows ST to take advantage of of disabled workers’ program. Its aim Tokyo, Japan ♂ Women in experienced management 70 ♂ 13.77 13.77 14.02 ♂ ♂ ♂ 65.12 (%) (job grades 15 and above) 64.70 “I’m Chieko Kamiya and I work in 61.56 61.83 63.62 32.56 33.25 Human Resources in Japan. Here 60 31.44 Women in senior management (%) 29.45 28.83 Performance against objectives in Tokyo, a huge number of people (job grades 17 and above) 8.90 9.91 9.56 9.79 10.04 commute by train and bus, which I 50 cannot do because I have a disability Women in executive management ♀ ♀ ♀ • Ensure that hiring ratio of women to men is equivalent to the average gender ratio of graduates 7.60 9.71 9.80 8.78 9.50 ♀ ♀ from rheumatoid arthritis. The company (%) (job grades 19 and above) 40 38.45 38.17 36.38 35.30 34.88 in partner schools and universities*. 7.81 7.82 provides a parking space for me so that Women on the Supervisory Board 1 2 30 15.49 8.66 8.75 15.95 8.87 I can commute with my own car, and I 4.53 15.49 16.51 15.73 • Ensure gender equality at higher level of job grade by increasing the women to men ratio by 4% 4.45 4.73 for job grades 15 and 16*. really appreciate this special treatment. (*) Figures changed following data review 26.11 25.90 4.65 4.69 ST also enables me to participate in 20 23.00 21.90 21.32 17.51 archery training on weekdays. Thanks 16.62 16.14 • Increase the proportion of women in leadership positions worldwide from 9.8% to 15% by 2015*. Disabled employees / LA13 10 15.67 16.19 to such support, I won the bronze • Ensure that all sites have a seniority plan to maintain employability in the second part of medal in the 2013 Para Archery World 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 people’s careers (% of population covered). Championships. I was very happy to show it to ST colleagues! I would really Disabled people employed as 09 10 11 12 3 • Ensure that all ST sites have disability plans to continue to increase the percentage of disabled 0.95 1.01 1.05 1.28 1.32 20 like to express my appreciation to ST.” % of total workforce 20 20 20 20 1 employees in ST (% of population covered). Budget spent on disability Exempts Non-exempts Operators 3,489 2,321 3,567 3,597 1,746 (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 Photo by courtesy of the ALBERGA/WORLD ARCHERY programs (US$k) More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 Our Products Our management approach • ST is certified company-wide to ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949 • ST Quality Strategy sets out commitments related to customer satisfaction and products • ST aligns its chemical management system with the IECQ QC 080000 HSPM standard • ST Environmental Health and Safety Decalogue sets out commitments related to Sustainable Technology For more information, see www.st.com/our-products Key results +2,5 points 598 463 overall level patents filed Responsible of customer in 2013 Products satisfaction launched in 2013 compared to 2011 OUR PRODUCTS Customer Satisfaction Carlos Peralta Quintero Chairman Grupo IUSA (Mexico) ST is committed to ensuring its products • Reinforced approach to problem “IUSA’s Vision is to establish a sustainable Supply-chain governance growth; therefore, we seek to work with meet customer expectations in all solving; In 2013, we made good progress in Technology companies sharing the same respects at every step of the product life • Development of a structured approach values. STMicroelectronics shares the cycle from conception to delivery and to change management; reinforcing our supply-chain governance. same principles and our relation of over post-sales. • Synchronization of Front-end and BackWe continued to deploy common five years has resulted in high quality end manufacturing to streamline the repository and new tools and KPIs e-Metering products. to optimize our forecasts and better Looking forward, the investment in Customer satisfaction survey production process and further improve renewable energy sources is a trend that quality; align our inventory model with our In 2013, ST conducted a customer will happen sooner than later and IUSA • Review of the processes for introducing customers and market needs. We have wants to be a pioneer of this technology satisfaction survey to analyze the also optimized our production flow by new products in order to enhance in Mexico. As one of the leaders in this perception and expectations of more working on interconnections between market and someone who shares the quality and time-to-market. than 200 of our customers. Compared organizations and on people roles and same values, ST is the right partner for us with the results of our 2011 survey the We know that we must constantly find responsibilities. to develop innovative products.” overall level of customer satisfaction ways to improve our product quality and we believe we have the strategy and For 2014, our priority programs are increased by 2.5 points and the extent to tools to keep moving on the right path. aligned with the feedback we received which customers are planning to increase More information on our quality strategy in our customer satisfaction survey but On time delivery to customer request their business with ST improved by 8 also with our Speed and Agility program On time delivery to customer request points. The highest satisfaction scores and roadmap is described in our Quality Handbook available at: www.st.com/ aimed at simplifying time-consuming and were obtained in business relations and 100 30 product offering. quality-handbook complex processes2: • Demand management to plan our Focus 90 80 70 80 88 31 Following the results of the survey and supply-chain more accurately; 73 76 74 The overall level of Growing interest of our customers 50 customer feedback, we promoted • Visibility improvement on early accurate improvement programs in the following customer satisfaction deliveries dates for our customers; areas: increased by • Daily/weekly planning process in for sustainability 2.5 points • Project management for product our materials management and the 0 development; The number of sustainabilityCoalition (EICC) including: capacity adjustment for our Front-end 09 10 11 12 13 related customer requirements1 • The EICC’s due-diligence tool for 20 20 20 20 20 • Product quality support effectiveness; and Back-end manufacturing activities that ST receives is increasing conflict minerals; • Supply-chain flexibility and visibility; to better react to changes in demand % of delivery in line with customer request • Post-sales support. Customers and sustainability year by year. Top topics include • The EICC-ON self-assessment and supply; compliance with EHS legislation2, questionnaires to disclose the ST welcomes an open dialogue with • Optimization of organization and management of hazardous risk assessment of our sites; Quality strategy our customers. In 2013 customer process flow across all the actors of the substances3, conflict minerals • EICC third party site audits, to On time delivery to ST commitment On time delivery to ST commitment requirements1 related to sustainability supply-chain. due diligence4 and sustainability share with multiple customers Providing high quality products is key to continued to increase with particular commitment (code of conduct, and avoid duplication of efforts; 100 acquiring new customers as well as new For more information on our approach to programs, performance). This is 90 focus on social and ethical issues • Launching specific programs 80 95 business from existing customers. Over customer satisfaction, see www.st.com/ 90 89 89 (requests increased by 65%). Read our due to an increase in sustainability to tackle the root cause of our 87 the last two years we redesigned our customer-satisfaction related legislation and also to dedicated focus on page 31 for more most demanding issues such as 50 quality governance and strategy in line growing focus on the sustainability information. working hours5. with the new ST strategy. We have made 1. Customer specified demands formally stated. It may be a practices of B2C companies by significant progress including: questionnaire, contract, letter of intent, letter of agreement, or other form or contractual commitment the media and NGOs. 1. Customer specified demands formally stated, it 0 • Development of a comprehensive and 2. For more information on ST Speed and Agility program, In order to enhance the levels may be a questionnaire, contract, letter of intent, read pages12-13 letter of agreement, or other form or contractual integrated quality strategy covering all 09 10 11 12 3 of customer satisfaction and commitment 20 20 20 20 20 1 ST business processes; streamline our response to 2. For more information, read the Environmental section pages 40 to 53 customer requests we are using 3. For more information, read page 34 % of delivery in line with ST commitment 4. For more information, read pages 38-39 shared tools and following best 5. For more information, read pages 20-21 Performance against objectives practice guidelines from the Electronics Industry Citizenship • Just in time on committed date at 92%. • Just in time on requested date at 78%. • Reduce customer complaints per million units by 5% by Q4 2013 compared with a 2011 baseline. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PRODUCTS Innovation Management Innovation is the critical link that converts Internal Fellows community • Fully Depleted Silicon on Insulator (FDour portfolio of IP and inventions, into SOI), with CEA-Leti, IBM and Soitec, products and ultimately into business ST recognized long ago that technological one of the world’s most important opportunities and revenues. A significant excellence is key to maintaining a leadingapplied research breakthroughs in proportion of the goods and services edge and attractive product portfolio. transistor and electronic technology. An internal Fellowship program is in Focus that will be available in the market in ten The 2013 objective was to leverage years’ time have not yet been developed place to recognize the most technically FD-SOI technology to bring a or even conceived, but microelectronics talented and experienced members breakthrough in a number of of the company and to make them is bound to be a key enabling technology underlying most of them. ambassadors to promote technical applications. This has been achieved by demonstrating the unique power Examples of technology, product excellence and the spread of knowledge throughout the company. (For more efficiency of the technology for ultraand application innovations New innovation opportunities low energy applications as well as for information on our human resources network infrastructure. The exceptional Technology innovation • ST has developed innovative ST’s approach to innovation is shifting programs for technical experts, see reliability also demonstrated, can be a Time of Flight solution Dr. Handel H. Jones to focus on the synergies between page 16). • ST’s pioneering FD-SOI is (FlightSense) for distance CEO, International Business Strategies (USA) game changer in applications such as technology, product and application1 a state-of-the-art CMOS metering and proximity sensors automotive. innovations. Our new internal structure Involvement in ecosystems and technology which brings enabling a large range of new “STMicroelectronics has demonstrated • Developing a technology that allows multiple benefits including vision, courage and innovation in reflects this and now consists of applications in mobile phones partnerships processing and manipulation of power efficiency, outstanding developing FD-SOI as a mainstream two segments: Embedded Process and Internet of Things (object light signals on silicon, with Luxtera flexibility, reliability and simpler option for advanced CMOS roadmap. Solutions (EPS) and Sense & Power and ST is participating in the most prominent and movement detection, fast The breadth of applications addressed Inc., bringing a dramatic increase in manufacturing processes. ST Automotive (SP&A), with manufacturing, international standardization organizations automatic camera focus). by FD-SOI is extensive, and in addition to processing speed and an outstanding has gained important design 32 technology R&D and products groups covering among others communication low power and high performance digital 33 reduction of power consumption. awards for this technology3. Application innovation designs, there is a wide range of mixed working closely together in both protocols, multimedia processing, • Many application innovations rely on signal and high frequency designs that segments. The Nano 2017 R&D security, wireless charging. Product innovation • ST participated in the the enablement and strength of an can be competitively addressed. program2 launched in 2013 and led development of a solution STMicroelectronics is in an excellent ecosystem. To foster such innovation, • ST developed a set-top-box by ST is also gathering many public for energy harvesting from position to take advantage of the global 598 ST is part of a collaborative industry solution, using the new video and private players to follow the same electromagnetic, thermoelectric adoption of FD-SOI and leverage its project, ARM mbed™ which delivers compression format, High advantages in product innovation in objective. and piezo (mechanical strain) patents filed in 2013 free tools and fundamental openEfficiency Video Coding (HEVC), sources. One example of a final markets like network infrastructure, source hardware and software building to display 4k “UltraHD” video application is a watch powered consumer or Internet of Things.” Investment in new ventures blocks for the rapid development of content. by the energy generated from As part of our commitment to fostering We are also sponsoring many graduate innovative ARM-based devices. ST • ST’s STLUX385A digital power the temperature difference and post-graduate research projects with contributes with its STM32 Nucleo open controller optimizes LED between skin and ambient air. ST patents ST filedby region patents filed an environment that generates new ideas, some of the most advanced universities development platform. efficiency at any dimming level ST has its own investment fund which 750 and research organizations around the and minimizes power use of 739 supports start-ups aiming to understand street lighting when idle. in advance emerging markets for which world in fields such as sensing networks, IP licensing out and sourcing semiconductor is key, such as healthcare, embedded system, smart power and automation. Certain internally-developed technologies 700 cleantech or smart infrastructures. carry value in excess of what can be In 2013, this fund invested in three And in 2013, ST participated in a number of extracted from product revenues alone, Innovation activity companies. collaborative innovation initiatives including: in which case ST sometimes seeks to 650 realize this value by licensing out a portion 2010 2011 2012 2013 of our Intellectual Property which can Median age of immature projects (months) 15 15 18 15 generate third party business. 602 Performance against objectives 600 598 % of Immature projects* younger 589 32 35 28 39 We also leverage external knowledge than 1 year • Increase creativity: number of patents for fundamental innovations filed per year. and technologies from private, public and % of projects* maturing within year 28 33 30 41 •  Increase R&D partnerships: reach 20% of R&D spending incurred via partnerships or external academic worlds in order to enhance the 550 IP sourcing*. efficiency of our innovation processes. (*) immature project: product development project, defined in accordance with IFRS criteria, measured in asset value, not yet at Maturity 30 at the end of the year. 516 (Read more on pages 60 to 63). •  Increase efficiency of product development: reduce average age of development projects to 15 months. 500 1. Application innovation refers to finding new ways of using 09 10 11 1220 • Increase efficiency of product development: increase proportion of projects less than 1 year our customers’ final products or supporting our customers 20 20 20 20 13 to create new products based on our technology solutions old to 33%. 2. For more information on Nano 2017 program, see www.st.com/web/en/press/c2727 (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 Total 3. For more information on awards received in 2013, see pages 64-65 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PRODUCTS STAR Responsible Products Sustainable Our STAR Responsible Products 463 This program enables us to both focus Technology program, launched in 2011, identifies, attention on trends that are key to our tracks and communicates new innovative responsible products business such as smart energy usage, products which address the social launched in 2013 which is defined as a key growth driver and environmental challenges of the for the company, as well as fostering an world today. For example, our ‘social A product is awarded 1, 2 or 3 STARS internal culture where sustainability is responsible products’ include those defined as ‘incremental’, ‘significant’ and embedded in our core business. which have safety applications or which ‘breakthrough’2 according to its level of provide health benefits to end-users innovation. For social products the rating 1. For detailed description of ST Responsible products categories and grade, see www.st.com/responsible-products while our ‘environmental responsible is applied based on qualitative evaluation 2. Innovation level is defined by comparing the product to market products’ include those which preserve and for environmental/energy savings standards and ST previous generation ST is committed to reducing the responsibility which goes beyond our Our Sustainable Technology program environmental resources and those products it is based on quantitative environmental impact of its products and efforts to reduce the environmental consists of three underlying programs: which contribute to renewable energy assessment. continually improving their performance to impacts of our products. It focuses on the • Product compliance generation1. enhance the quality of life of end-users. positive role we can play, in respect of the • STAR Responsible Products In 2013, we changed the name of our major societal and environmental issues • Eco-design ‘Product Stewardship program’ to the facing our world today, by providing ‘Sustainable Technology program’. innovative technology solutions. This reflects ST’s approach to product ST Sustainable Technology program ECOPACK® Product compliance Materials Env. / ConflictSocial EnergyEco-design Complying with applicable legislation This is a new advanced grade which declaration Hazardous Substances Process free savings and the requirements of our customers we announced in 2013. First orders for Minerals 34 Management (HSPM) 35 and other stakeholders regarding EHS ECOPACK® 3 arrived at the end of 2013 and the social and ethical impacts of our and will appear in our 2014 reporting The HSPM objective is to enhance products is a fundamental component data. companies’ processes to identify, control, of our Sustainable Technology program. quantify and report the amounts of Product Compliance Responsible Products LCA / Eco-design These grades are communicated We annually review our EHS regulated hazardous and toxic substances in the to our customers, although in some substances list against applicable products they manufacture or supply. cases customers may still request regulations and agreed customer ST already has a strong chemical non-ECOPACK® products for technical requirements. Internally we have management system covering the reasons. purchase and manufacturing processes Focus developed strategic programs to ensure we remain compliant with applicable and involving Facilities and EHS requirements. Materials declaration organizations (see pages 48-49). We have made good progress in our ECOPACK® In order to provide our customers with the detailed material composition of our ongoing efforts to align our hazardous MEMS brochure promotes Accelerometers All ST products are classified according devices, ST has a material declarations program in place to disclose the full substance management systems with the IECQ4 QC 080000 HSPM standard. Sustainable Technology to the voluntary ECOPACK® program, Our designers are required to check chemical identity of any product using ST leads the consumer and mobile information on: which responds to all applicable whether any of the substances they need the IPC 17523 standard. Customers can MEMS (micro-electromechanical • Compliance with ECOPACK® requirements such as REACH, RoHS and for a product are hazardous and, if so, to system) market and offers one of access our latest product information on level; ELV1 including the development of new define a replacement plan, if relevant. Our the industry’s widest portfolios of the ST website. • Reduction of carbon and water solutions that eliminate RoHS chemical purchase organization has also reinforced MEMS motion sensors, including footprints; Smart motion features at ultra-low power consumption compounds from our products and its requirements to ensure suppliers are in accelerometers, gyroscopes, • STAR rating of its responsible ST’s state-of-the-art MEMS accelerometers include analog and digital sensors featuring up to ±400g manufacturing lines, when feasible. Conflict-free minerals digital compasses and inertial 10 acceleration full scale and from 1.71 to 3.6 V supply voltage. Accelerometers have advanced powersaving features that make them suitable for ultra-low-power applications.These features include lowproducts. power mode, auto wake-up function and a FIFO buffer that can be used to store data, thus reducing the line with the HSPM standard. host processor loading and system power consumption. ST is committed to complying with modules. The small size and embedded features of ST’s accelerometers make them an ideal choice for handheld portable applications and where long battery life is required. The three ECOPACK® grades are: Disclosing product carbon legislation and aligning with customer 1. ELV End-of-Life of Vehicle EU Directive Recognizing increasing market • ECOPACK® 1: compliant with the 2. With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, footprint data is now industry BENEFITS requirements relating to conflict minerals. • High performances Restriction of Hazardous Substances as some exemptions are necessary, mainly for the automotive expectations around the provision common practice. However, • Small footprint for ultra-compact solutions For more information see the Conflict-free market with regard to RoHS Directive of environmental and social ST has gone beyond this by • Low power consumption and (RoHS) directive and ‘lead free‘2; 3. For more information on IPC, see www.ipc.org/ ultra-low-power operating modes that allow advanced power saving Minerals section on pages 38-39. 4. IECQ = International Electro-technical Commission Quality product information, the Motion publishing our product water and smart sleep-to-wake-up • ECOPACK® 2: ECOPACK® 1 + free Assessment System for Electronic Components functions MEMS division agreed to pilot • Great and easy-to-use of brominated, chlorinated and footprints and by communicating built-in features • Embedded state machines enable ST’s new Sustainable Technology about its socially responsible custom motion recognition reducing system complexity SUSTAINABLE -42% antimonyoxide flame retardants; tools and was the first to publish TECHNOLOGY -43% products. • ECOPACK® 3: ECOPACK® 2 + free of SUSTAINABLE a product family brochure with halogens with no RoHS exemptions. TECHNOLOGY More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PRODUCTS Sustainable Technology Eco-Design Looking forward to 2014 product according to the ISO 14044 We are working on the integration of all Our priorities include: • Increased communication surrounding standard. elements of our Sustainable Technology • Integration of eco-design and Sustainable Technology in order to program within our IT systems to improve responsible products throughout create awareness throughout the Our new eco-design objective is now the robustness and reliability of both company procedures and IT systems; company. taking into account the substantial range processes and results. • Training of key actors in Product of products we are developing and their Groups to support the deployment of complexity. The revised strategy has We are committed to making this Sustainable Technology; been integrated within the new EHS Sustainable Technology program an Decalogue2. integral part of communications. In 2013 Responsible Products category and STAR classification criteria* / EN6 / EN26 we issued a pilot product communication In 2013, a major step was taken with the Paolo Epigrafi brochure3 which details how the 2013 Social Environmental general Energy Saving Total Resp. ST is committed to designing its integration of eco-design and responsible Corporate EHS Engineer, products are positioned according to our 16 11 266 293 products by taking into consideration product check-lists in our product Agrate (Italy) Sustainable Technology program. the environmental impact of the device database tool. As a result, when working 9 0 119 128 during its whole life-cycle (raw materials, on new products, design teams are now “The Sustainable Technology program 5 1 36 42 systematically encouraged to think about 1. For more information on our STAR program, see page 35 provides a far-sighted vision to link transportation, manufacturing, usage, 2. For our revised EHS commitments for 2014-2020, see the sustainability to products. Total products 30 12 421 463 end-of-life) and proposing more environmental and social criteria, as well 5th edition of ST’s Decalogue available at www.st.com/ehsdecalogue In the scope of this program, ST has environmentally-friendly products. as enhancing their products compared to 3. For more information about this brochure, see page 36 pioneered over many years the adoption (*) For more information on STAR classification criteria see www.st.com/responsible-products the previous version. and adaptation of Life-Cycle Assessment SOCIAL customer applications to reduce their energy As a usual practice in microelectronics, (LCA) to our complex product design and consumption and/or provide new environmental Products that provide new social solutions and improve miniaturization, integration of more manufacturing processes. end-user quality of life (e.g. all health related products, solutions (e.g. smart grids, start/stop systems…). functionality in the same chip and power And as an LCA practitioner, I have seen safety applications, water management/social solutions for developing countries…). ENVIRONMENTAL the significant contribution of LCA to consumption reduction are commonly Web interactive environmental footprint of a MEMS* Products that save resources and increase the definition and piloting of Eco-design 36 integrated in the device development ENERGY SAVING environmental preservation (water, chemicals, 37 Select the environmental indicator within our Sustainable Technology Products that reduce energy consumption and/or enable emissions etc.) or renewable energy generation. process. These practices have been at program. the heart of our company for a longtime. The collaboration with Product Groups ECOPACK® program (% of ECOPACK® products in kunits*) However, with the Eco-design program, is now key to integrate Eco-design and ECOPACK program (% of ECOPACK products in kunits*) ® ® Responsible Products processes in the we aim to systematically track these company.” 100 practices and increase the awareness Climate change Water demand Freshwater Photochemical about green design. eutrophication oxidant formation 87.5 82.4 Our experts have developed an eco80 design tool that enables designers to Results Performance against objectives 70.0 evaluate the environmental footprint of products in the design phase and which Total impact 147g CO2-eq. or 610m by car • ECOPACK® 2 (RoHS compliant with exemptions + 60 58.1 is based on the Life-Cycle Assessment halogen authorized): 90% of new packages implemented 54.7 (LCA) experience. The in-house in ECOPACK® 2 by the end of 2014. Click on the square to discover the footprint of each life cycle stage Corporate Environment team earned 43.6 • ECOPACK® 2 (RoHS compliant with exemptions + 40 39.5 a Gold ST Annual Recognition (STAR1) 5 life cycle stages halogen authorized): 95% of products in ECOPACK® 2 award in the People and Sustainability 28.7 in financial value by the end of 2015*. category for the activity related to LCA Raw materials and Eco-design. • ECOPACK® 3 (no RoHS exemption and halogen free): 20 16.8 25% of new packages implemented in ECOPACK® 3 12.2 Our methodology to perform both full ST production site by the end of 2015. LCAs on assembled devices and a quick 2.4 1.8 1.3 0.8 0.3 calculation of a product’s carbon and • Ensure 100% of new ST products are eco-designed 0 Transport by 2015*. water footprint was reviewed by a third 20 09 20 10 20 11 12 20 20 13 party (Quantis International) in 2013 and • STAR-rated Responsible Products impact on New the robustness of the approach has been Use Products (24 month window) Silicon line >= 30%*. Non ECOPACK® assessed and confirmed. • Integrate line item for environmentally/socially responsible ECOPACK® 1 End-of-life characteristics in product brochures/flyers across 12 Compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive and lead free** The diagram on the right reports the environmental impacts for the different products. ECOPACK® 2 ECOPACK® 1 + free of brominated and chlorinated flame retardants (*)(*) SeeSee more more on www.st.com/mems-footprint on www.st.com/mems-footprint LCA phases resulting from a full LCA • Create a dedicated communication plan in 2013 for (*) Our ECOPACK® values since 2009 have been reviewed in 2011 after a revision of our study performed in 2013 for a MEMS responsible products including towards customers, methodology used to estimate the annual percentage of ECOPACK® products both in value and in volume. investors, employees and other stakeholders. (**) With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, as some exemptions are (*) Objectives discontinued in 2014 necessary mainly for the automotive market with regard to RoHS regulation. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 OUR PRODUCTS Conflict Minerals ST is committed to complying with its direct suppliers, and a listing of the Minerals report to the US Securities legislation and aligning with customer smelters the company and its suppliers and Exchange Commission (SEC) that requirements relating to conflict minerals. use. In addition, the template contains includes a description of due diligence We take careful measures in an effort to questions about the origin of conflict measures taken on their 3TG supply 2013 progress and further risk provided details of 104 smelters involved by directly contacting certain smelters in in their supply chain. Details on CFS order to request their participation in the avoid procuring 3TG (Tantalum, Tungsten, minerals included in a company’s chains, unless they have determined that mitigation Tin and Gold) metals that are directly or products, as well as supplier due their 3TG did not originate in the Covered validated smelters are set forth in the table CFS program, and by encouraging our In 2013, we have formalized and below. suppliers and subcontractors to work with indirectly associated with human rights diligence. This template is being used by Countries, or that their 3TG came from reinforced our management of conflict CFS validated smelters. violations or environmental damage in the many companies in their due diligence recycled or scrap sources. We initially focused our due diligence minerals with specific documentation Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and processes related to conflict minerals. efforts on tantalum as 26% of global In 2014, we will also fine-tune our In May of 2014, we filed our first Conflict that describes our due diligence process its neighboring countries (collectively, the deposits of this mineral come from analysis of 3TG usage by product Minerals Report, which is available at 100% and defines the associated roles and “Covered Countries”). Covered Countries1. 100% of smelters category, by working with our suppliers of smelters http://investors.st.com. In preparing our responsibilities of the different entities ST manages conflict minerals in Report, we also analyzed approximately in our tantalum supply chain have and subcontractors in order to obtain a in ST’s tantalum supply within ST. achieved CFS validation. Over the last list of smelters better tailored to our end accordance with the following legislation 19,000 products in order to determine chain are CFS validated Last year, all our suppliers and year the number of our CFS validated products. and best practices: the percentage of ST products in each subcontractors responded to our due gold smelters has increased from 30% • Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank product category that depend on 3TG. In addition, the EICC and GeSI have diligence requests, using the CFSI to 65%. In 2014, our objective is to 1. Source: U.S. Department of Interior U.S. Geological Survey, Act and related Rule 13p-1 under the Mineral Commodity Summaries, January 2013 developed the Conflict Free Smelter template. Out of those 162 suppliers and continue to increase the percentage of Securities Exchange Act; (CFS) program, which is a voluntary subcontractors, 105 source 3TG, and validated smelters for tin and tungsten • OECD Due Diligence Guidance for initiative in which an independent third 38 Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals; 39 party audits smelter procurement and • Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) processing activities and determines Conflict minerals working groups within the EICC; if the smelter has provided sufficient 2012 2013 • ITRI’s Tin Supply Chain Initiative. documentation to demonstrate with Number of materials suppliers and subcontractors involved in the reasonable confidence that the minerals EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey 168 162 ST due diligence methodology it processed originated from conflict-free sources. Number of suppliers and subcontractors that are associated with at least As full member of the Electronics Industry 88 105 one 3TG metal (involved suppliers) Citizenship Coalition (EICC), we employ Our due diligence measures consist of: due diligence methodologies defined • Conducting a supply-chain survey with % (number) of involved suppliers and subcontractors that have 100% (88) 100% (105) by a joint working group comprised completed the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey direct suppliers and subcontractors Dr. Markus Neuhauser of EICC and Global e-Sustainability using the CFSI template; Compliance Officer Number of smelters identified in ST’s raw materials supply chain 74 75 Initiative (GeSI) representatives. Tools • Comparing these identified smelters Heraeus Materials Technology GmbH available for participants in the EICC & Co. KG (Germany) Number of smelters identified in ST subcontractors’ supply chain 102 98 and refiners against the list of facilities include a template known as the CFSI which have received a “conflict-free” Reporting Template. This template “As a precious metals company, validation by the CFS program. Conflict minerals inquiry results responsibility with international supply was developed to facilitate disclosure chains lies at the very heart of our and communication of information First Conflict Mineral report operations – for more than 160 years. % of smelters which are not % of smelters which are regarding smelters that provide material Heraeus operates in accordance with the % of smelters which are CFS CFS validated and have not CFS validated and have % of smelters with to a company’s supply chain. It includes Under the Dodd-Frank Act and related latest “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for validated declared recycled or scrap declared sourcing from L1/L2 undetermined status U.S. securities laws, manufacturers of Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals”. sources countries* questions regarding a company’s certain products must submit a Conflict We monitor our suppliers and work conflict-free policy, engagement with 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 closely together with our supply chain partners to receive, produce and deliver Tantalum 66 100 100 0 0 0 conflict-free materials, only. Beyond this day-to-day business we decided to Gold 30 65 10 10 15 Performance against objectives conduct an annual third party audit with focus on conflict-free minerals to learn, Tin 27** 6 55 12 • Define and deploy systems and processes to provide reasonably reliable evidence which enhance and display responsibility. Notwithstanding, sustainable and Tungsten 7** 7 73 13 we use to determine whether products are conflict-free and : maintain the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence Tool update for 100% of our material suppliers, responsible supply chains are only (*) For the purposes of this table, the references to “L1” and “L2” are modeled after the EICC due diligence framework. For clarification for purposes of this Report, neither of the “L1” or the “L2” achieved through a trustworthy and Front-end and Back-end subcontractors. categories identified by the EICC in its due diligence framework includes the DRC or any of the other Covered Countries. L1 countries are not identified as conflict regions or plausible areas of credible partnership such as exists with smuggling or export from these regions of tin/tantalum/tungsten containing minerals. This currently includes Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, endeavor to engage all the smelters identified in our supply chain to join the EICC-GeSI and Czech Republic. L2 countries are known or plausible countries for the smuggling, export out of region or transit of tin/tantalum/tungsten containing mineral. This currently includes Kenya, STMicroelectronics.” Conflict-Free Smelter program. Mozambique, and South Africa. (**) Number of validated tin and tungsten smelters is lower than validated tantalum and gold smelters. For more information, see www.conflictfreesourcing.org/program-indicators More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 The Environment Our management approach • 17 of our sites, including all our manufacturing sites, are ISO 14001 certified • 15 of our sites, including all our manufacturing sites, are EMAS validated • Our 6 Front-end manufacturing sites are ISO 50001 certified • Our 12 manufacturing sites were ISO 14064 certified in 2012 • ST Environmental Health and Safety Decalogue defines our medium to long-term environmental objectives For more information, see www.st.com/the-environment 40 41 Key results 5th edition of ST EHS Decalogue P-FOS eliminated for 100% -6.7% Of water consumption released of ST processes in 2013 vs 2012 THE ENVIRONMENT Focus GHG Emissions Carbon Disclosure Project ST reports on climate risk exposure and respective adaptation from Operations and mitigation strategies in its Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) submission. In 2013, we achieved a score of 94/100 for the CDP Investor and as a result a ranking on the CDP’s Italy 100 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the second consecutive year. Moreover, for the first time we were also included in CDP’s France 250 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. ST is committed to managing and and logistics for our products, in 2002/03 have sequestrated 221 kTons reducing its direct and indirect materials and employees3; of CO2, compensating around 40% of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, • Continue to compensate our direct our annual direct emissions. Summary of net CO2 emissions (kTons) Summary of net CO2 emissions EN16 / EN17 / EN18 / EN29 / 3.1 / 3.2 / 3.4 including perfluorinated compounds emissions through reforestation EN16 / EN17 / EN18 / EN29 / 3.1 / 3.2 / 3.4 (kTons) At local level, some sites are very active (PFCs), from its manufacturing and other programs and/or compensation Other indirect emissions in regional reforestation programs. business operations, in accordance with voluntary projects; (transportation*) For example, ST volunteers in Bouskoura (Scope 3): 7.3% scopes 1 to 3 of the GHG Protocol. • Treat air emissions in appropriate Direct emissions (Morocco), Calamba (the Philippines) (Scope 1): 37.5% abatement systems to control risks of and Kirkop (Malta) planted 5,500 trees GHG performance 2013 pollution before discharging them into in 2013. the natural environment. Indirect emissions ST had previously defined a carbon (purchased electricity) roadmap with a CO2 neutrality target Adapting to climate change (Scope 2): 55.2% by 2015 which proved to be too Mitigating climate change ST has two programs to anticipate and ambitious. While we have made More than 90% of our direct emissions respond to risks associated with climate continuous progress in our GHG result from the use of PFCs in our change. Jean-Maurice Ramirez emissions management over the last manufacturing processes. ST has Site Environmental Champion, 15 years, it has become increasingly adopted the World Semiconductor We have developed robust Business Rousset (France) difficult for us to find additional ways to Council target to reduce PFCs Continuity Plans (BCPs) which are continually improve our performance and emissions by 30% in 2020 from the implemented by each site to prevent ST Rousset is considered as a ‘green 42 meet our Decalogue targets. We have 2010 baseline. This requires significant and protect against climate change and semiconductor plant’, why? 43 (*) The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees’ transportation reviewed our strategy (see information company investment to purchase natural disasters. and transportation of goods. “When we built the 8-inch wafer plant in 1997 we integrated the highest on pages 6-7) to reflect the current additional abatement devices for mature In 2012, we launched a carbon risk environmental standards from ST’s EHS challenging economic circumstances equipment. We require all new processes assessment with a bottom-up approach Decalogue. These included: we are operating in, and we have now and tools adopted by our sites to be • Installing a mini-environment clean to evaluate sites and identify which committed to the following targets equipped with similar systems. room saving up to 30% energy; ones are the most at risk. The method published in our 5th edition of the • Equipping our chillers with heat PFC reduction is also achieved is inspired by “The Water Risk Filter” recovery systems for 100% of our needs; Environment Health and Safety (EHS) CO emissions (per unit of production) through the development of greener provided by WWF and adapted for CO22emissions : normalized values • Installing abatement devices to remove Decalogue in December 2013: normalized values / EN16 / EN16 / Dec. 3.0 3.0 manufacturing techniques, the carbon risk. As part of this process 100% of emissions from PFCs and COV; • Direct emissions (Scope 1)1: reduce Baseline 100 in 1994 optimization of process recipes and the we assessed the physical (such as Baseline 100 in 1994 • Building a waste water treatment plant PFCs emissions (tons CO2 per to remove all polluting substances.” replacement of high Global Warming dependence of operations on weather production unit) by 30% in 2020 45 Potential (GWP) gases with lower or and temperature); regulatory and What are the most exciting aspects of from 2010 baseline; 42 your job? GWP-free alternatives. reputational risks (exposure to media, • Indirect emissions (Scope 2): decrease “I started working for ST in 1973 and, in involvement in compensation measures CO2 indirect emissions through our 40 1990, followed my passion and took a job ST 2013 CDP score: and initiatives). in the newly established environment 94/100 energy management programs2; 37 department. I enjoy the diversity of • Transportation emissions (Scope 3): In addition, our Enterprise Risk 35 environmental management and have reduce CO2 emissions (tons CO2 per Management (ERM) program 35 developed a wide range of expertise in 33 production unit) from transportation In 2012, all our Scope 1 and Scope 2 systematically, consistently and effectively this field. I am closely involved in GHG emissions were audited and verified identifies, evaluates and manages risks delivering training and raising awareness 30 amongst the younger generations about in accordance to ISO 140644 for all our across the company, including natural 30 environmental protection.” manufacturing sites. However, due to disasters. Performance against objectives difficult economic circumstances we did What are your main challenges? “The use of chemicals in semiconductor not undertake certification of emissions 1. Scope 1, 2 and 3 are defined in the GHG Protocol • Offset the remaining direct CO2 2. See Energy Management pages 46-47 25 manufacturing is rapidly evolving and to this standard in 2013. 3. See Transport and Logistics pages 52-53 this raises the need for thorough controls to emissions through reforestation or 4. ISO 14064: Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Verification minimize any health and environmental other sequestration methods, to reach carbon-neutrality of direct CO2 Compensation and reforestation consequences. Another challenge for ST is 20 ensuring we remain globally competitive emissions by 2015*. To offset the remaining emissions, ST 09 10 11 12 13 while investing in improvements to 20 20 20 20 20 • Reduce absolute PFC emissions by has developed a reforestation program environmental performance.” 30% in 2020 from 1995 baseline. in Australia, Italy, Morocco and Texas. In CO2 emissions 2013, the 9,000 hectares of trees planted (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE ENVIRONMENT Water Management ST is committed to reducing water use constantly upgraded to meet ever more Supply-chain water management and ensuring high standards of effluent stringent water reduction targets. Each and waste water treatment, together with site regularly monitors its patterns of We monitor our water-related risks identifying and managing water-related water usage and we constantly develop and overall management of water in risks and opportunities, including impact innovative measures to save water by our supply chain through the following on local communities. aligning the operating procedures with initiatives: the best equipment and processes. In • Assessing the water management performance of our suppliers and Water management performance 2013, we reached a water recycling and Recycled and reused total water / EN10 / 2.2 re-use rate of 43.5%. Two sites have subcontractors as part of our annual Once again, we made progress with Self-Assessment Questionnaire carried 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Focus increased their performance through respect to our water management out for the EICC; a new irrigation system in Bouskoura Total targets. In 2013, ST achieved its • Ongoing engagement with water used 25,622 27,736 29,113 28,315 30,967 (Morocco), and optimization of existing objective of reducing water draw-down stakeholders including industry (1,000m3) (cubic meters per production unit) by systems in Calamba (the Philippines). associations and sustainability ST Tours (France) engages Water 6.7%. We recently revised our water In 2014, we aim to further improve management performance targets and our water management efforts with initiatives. stakeholders to save water recycled and reused 36.20 37.29 40.53 42.96 43.54 have published these in the 5th edition of a particular focus on our large nonrate (%) 44 45 ST EHS Decalogue (see information on manufacturing sites. To reduce its environmental impact and improve the company’s pages 6-7). For 2014-2020, we are now competitiveness, ST Tours (France) developed an ambitious watersaving project, involving several stakeholders. Since 2011, the project Consumption of water (per unit 43.5% committed to: has resulted in savings of 10m3 per hour of ultra-pure water, a 15% Consumption of production)of water (per unit • Continuously improve water efficiency consumption decrease, equating to US$ 365k per year. of production) normalized normalized values /: EN8 2.2 values / at equivalent production level through of water recycled water saving programs and water and re-used EN8 / Dec. Baseline 100 in2.2 (m3) baseline 100 in 1994 1994 recycling projects (cubic meters per Ultra-pure water consumption 50 production unit); Waste water is treated in dedicated and quality through innovative Technical solutions (bacteriology control). • Control any risks of pollution before treatment plants, either located onSuppliers Awareness raising through discharging wastewater into the natural site or developed in collaboration with ‘water days’ on site and environmental and water talks 45 environment; local authorities to remove polluting by employees to local schools. • Assess and evaluate the water stress substances such as fluoride, which assessment of all our manufacturing cannot be treated by municipal plants. French 39.0 sites considering local constraints. Universities 40 Marcelino Alawas Governmental Our sites work closely with local / Schools Agencies Facilities Engineer, Water strategy and programs stakeholders such as governmental ST’s water conservation strategy is organizations, citizen associations, Calamba (the Philippines) Regional Direction of Environment, ST 35 based on the 3R Reduce, Recycle and and suppliers to reduce water extraction and consumption, and to ensure “ST has the objective of reaching a 45% water recycling rate. Being in charge Planning and Housing (DREAL) 2011 Regulation to conduct a study on Tours water consumption and usage, Re-use approach. We always ensure that sustainable community development. of this project gives me satisfaction of together with financial support from Water supply; water conservation features are included seeing the progress achieved, but it is the Water Agency. Waste water treatment convention; 30 Regular collaboration meetings. 27.3 27.8 in the design of our facilities, and that Water risk mitigation also frustrating when improvement in 26.7 27.0 our manufacturing processes are the recycling percentage is not as rapid Working groups to optimize In 2012, ST conducted a water risk as it could be. For me, it is not only water consumption of equipment, during both Tours City 25 meeting the target that is important, ST Teams assessment at corporate level which active and stand-by modes, Council 09 10 11 12 3 but the team effort that is involved 20 and to increase recycled 20 20 20 20 1 identified that 42% of ST sites are located and the raising of awareness about the water usage. Performance against objectives in water stressed areas. These sites have importance of preserving water today, Target implemented plans to manage their water not just in the plant but also in our own • Reduce water draw-down (per responsibly. For example, our site located households for the benefit of the next Consumption of water generations. We will continue to look for production unit) by 5% per year. in Malta, where water is scarce, has means to conserve water to reach the • Achieve an overall company recycling developed innovative techniques to reach target and maybe even go beyond.” rate of 45% by 2015. a recycling rate of 65%. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE ENVIRONMENT Focus Energy Air compressor automation in ST Kirkop (Malta) Management During the manufacturing process, products which are queuing for the next step are stored in dry boxes where the humidity level needs to be kept low in order to avoid damage to component parts. As such, dry air is injected into the boxes by compressors. In 2013, ST Kirkop installed new temperature and humidity sensors along with microcontroller cards that measure, track and regulate the air flow inside the dry boxes. This has resulted in a decrease in dry box energy consumption which has saved 2.5% of the site’s total annual energy demand, equivalent to a saving of 2,215MWh. ST is committed to reducing its energy Energy sourcing ST also carries out regular upgrades of consumption and carbon footprint of its existing equipment and manufacturing its operations through energy efficiency When purchasing energy, the processes with the aim of improving and conservation programs, along with environment is a key consideration and energy efficiency. In 2013, Front-end sites Breakdown of energy consumption (GWh) / EN3 / EN4 / 3.3 the purchase of CO2-free and renewable we will always select the greenest option consumed 70.4% of ST’s total energy given the financial considerations. In 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 energies. ST carefully monitors and consumption. Energy conservation anticipates changes in the energy 2013, 17.6% of the energy purchased efforts at these sites during the same Electricity consumption 1,986 2,018 2,058 2,041 2,092 market. by ST came from renewable sources year reduced electricity consumption Natural gas consumption 214 171 166 153 183 compared to 7.4% in 2012. This strong by 7.1% compared to 2012, equivalent increase is thanks to our Italian energy Others sources 0 0 0 3.77 4.54 Energy management to 29 GWh and US$ 3.2m. Efficiencies provider providing 30% of our energy Total energy consumption 2,200 2,189 2,224 2,197 2,279 performance were achieved for example, by finding contract from renewable sources, the optimum balance between humidity, Energy consumption due to electricity (%) 90.27 92.19 92.54 92.87 91.79 In 2013, our energy performance was combined with the long-standing temperature and laminar flow velocity impacted by production fluctuations; contribution from our French provider. Jacques Mille in our cleanrooms; and recovering heat Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary sources (%) Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary sources (%) however we still managed to reduce IT Infrastructure Technology Manager, / EN3 / EN4 / 3.3 Some ST sites have solar panels which from the exhaust instead of using new Rousset (France) / EN3 / EN4 / 3.3 our energy consumption by 3.5%. energy to warm the buildings. generated 2.1 GWh in Catania (Italy) Other fuels: 0.20% We revised our 5th EHS Decalogue Natural gas: 8.01% and 50,000 kWh for both our Geneva In 2014, we aim to further improve “ST started to address the electrical published in December 2013, including Photovoltaic and thermal solar electricity (Switzerland) and Grenoble (France) sites our energy management efforts with consumption of its datacenters some produced by ST: 0.10% new targets (see information on pages years ago as the IT requirements of the in 2013. particular focus on our large non46 6-7). We are now committed to: business grew. I have been in charge 47 manufacturing sites by increasing the 17.6% • Continuously improve energy efficiency of introducing new IT technologies Green electricity at equivalent production level (kWh per of energy collection of energy data, as a first step. since 2010, and one of the priorities of purchased: 17.64% our IT infrastructure teams has been to production unit) through process and purchased coming from reduce the energy consumed by our IT facilities optimization, conservation and renewable sources 1. LEEDTM: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 2. Scope 2 as defined in the GHG Protocol equipment. building design; 3. ISO 50001 requirements include establishing, Our approach is three-fold: implementing, maintaining and improving energy management • Adopt, whenever possible, renewable Energy consumption, efficiency systems • Use state-of-the-art technology to reduce air conditioning power Electricity purchased from energy sources through energy and conservation consumption in new or refurbished nuclear (CO2-free): 17.79% Electricity purchased from procurement and/or green energy datacenters; fossil fuel sources: 56.25% installations; ST is committed to reducing its energy • Progressively replace older servers with • Design and assess all new building consumption and carbon footprint from more modern, energy efficient ones; its operations through energy efficiency Consumption of energy and manufacturing sites according to • Introduce “server virtualization” Consumption of energy (per unit of production) techniques enabling us to optimize the (per unit of production) : normalized values “LEEDTM”1 or equivalent standard; and conservation programs, as per normalized values EN4 / 2.1 usage of each server. EN4 / Dec. 2.1 (kWh) • Integrate energy efficiency performance Scope 22. Before any new major facilities Baseline 100 in 1994 Since 2010 we have seen a 53% as a key criteria for design and equipment is purchased, it is assessed reduction of average energy consumed 70 execution of new facility projects. under the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) per server in our main datacenter, and in 65.4 framework which evaluates, amongst 2013 we reduced this datacenter’s total other considerations, the energy electricity consumption by 13%, further evidence that sustainability initiatives 60 consumption it will require over a ten positively impact the company’s bottom Performance against objectives year period. Luigi Piombi line.” CEO, Burgo Energia (Italy) 51.7 In July 2013, we achieved our • Reduce energy consumption by 5% challenging goal of ISO 50001 50 47.9 48.2 45.8 per unit of production per year*. “As an important Italian energy provider, certification for all our six Front-end we are continually looking for ways to • By 2015, achieve an increase of sites. ISO 500013 was taken as a great help preserve our planet. The energy 15% in the purchase of green energy opportunity to further enhance ST’s 40 we produce comes from high-efficiency (baseline 2011). energy management program and cogeneration power plants operating in • By 2015, ensure that 100% of call for achieve additional savings. It involves our paper mills. To meet the sustainable developing tools to systematically energy demands of our customers, such tenders from 200 k$ include criteria 30 as ST, we have developed a mix of on energy efficiency and use of CO2 measure the energy consumption of Target renewable sources (wind, sun, water). emission-free and/or renewable energy each piece of equipment and analyze a 30% of the energy we provide to ST regarding facilities and site services. Consumption of energy site’s overall energy use. comes from certified renewable sources.” 20 (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 09 10 11 12 3 20 20 20 20 20 1 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE ENVIRONMENT Chemicals Management ST is committed to managing and Materials of concern ST is also working with European Alessandro Freguglia reducing its environmental, health and safety risks, and to achieving management process Chemical Agency (ECHA) and several industry bodies to ensure the alignment Focus Bonding and MEMS Process Engineer, Agrate (Italy) compliance with legislation and customer ST uses ISO 140013 and OHSAS 180014 of the semiconductor industry sector requirements. We proactively review standards as a reference throughout its manufacturing activities and supply-chain to REACH5 regulation. To comply with ST’s exposure to Substances “Glass frit bonding is used to hermetically seal Micro Electro Mechanical Systems chemicals selection, use and substitution REACH legislation, ST has developed based on the precautionary principle in order to protect employees’ health and a substance substitution strategy and of Very High Concern (SVHC) (MEMS) devices. We worked together with our suppliers to find a lead-free and our relevant specifications and safety and to guarantee compliance with detailed roadmap for Front-end and glass frit substitute while maintaining procedures. We also aim for suppliers applicable regulations regarding product Back-end sites. To date, ST has replaced A substance may be proposed • When substances are included the same process conditions. The new and subcontractors to be compliant with chemical content and chemicals use. nine regulated substances (including five as an SVHC if it meets one or in Annex XIV of the SVHC list, material combines improved mechanical ST’s chemical requirements. SVHC). more hazardous criteria. Once a a mandatory replacement with characteristics and a higher safety profile. substance is added to the SVHC a defined end date is required, I am very pleased to have been involved Chemicals management Precautionary principle and Chemical Risk Assessments 9 candidate list, ST must comply with certain requirements: unless an Authorization from European Chemical Agency in this project, proposing and sponsoring it from the very beginning. performance regulated substances • For those substances present (ECHA) is granted to ST for Lead-free glass frit will allow ST to New chemical products are reviewed replaced since 2008 (above a defined threshold) in specific use. ST uses one compete in new markets ahead of We are committed to the following against ST’s regulated substances time, with greener devices following products ST must communicate substance on the Annex XIV and targets that were published in our 5th specifications and are subject to rigorous standardized processes. I am proud to be One of today’s challenges is complying the actual concentration and we are currently working to phase part of the ST Technical Staff community.” EHS Decalogue in December 2013 (see Chemical Risk Assessments (CRA). CRA with the regulatory requirements provide information on the safe this out by January 1st 2015. information on pages 6-7): evaluate requirements for: strict engineemanagement of the product endof eliminating or replacing some ST uses 20 SVHCs for critical • Adopt an approach based on ring control measures; risk mitigation; of-life to customers; 48 substances, while ensuring the continuity processes. Whilst we comply with all 49 precautionary principles when collective protective measures; personal • For restricted use substances, ST of our manufacturing activities, which applicable regulation requirements assessing the EHS impacts of new protective equipment and administrative must adhere to use restrictions in Consumption of chemicals requires maintaining certain hazardous we are looking at alternative Consumption of chemicals (per unit operational processes, chemicals procedures. Site chemical committees all European manufacturing sites. (per unit of production) chemicals which we cannot substitute. substances. To date, ST has of production) : normalized values and materials; approve all chemicals before they can be This may also involve finding a normalized values / EN1 / 2.3 For substances where replacements are completed replacement plans for five EN1 / Dec. 2.3 (kg) baseline 100 in 2000 • Strive towards continuous control, used. replacement substance; Baseline 100 in 2000 currently unavailable, ST engages with regulated substances. reduction and elimination of risks and substances of concern in our Substances reduction, the relevant authorities to explain how 70 replacement and elimination we ensure hazardous chemicals are used 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 processes and activities, for an safely. SVHC 28 44 71 138 151 environmentally friendlier, safer Reduction of chemicals usage and 65 and healthier work place; exposure are achieved through the 1. HSPM: Hazardous Substances program Management ST concern 2 5 8 18 20 63.4 63.2 System. For more information see page 33 • Align material management with development of greener manufacturing 2. GeSI: Global e-Sustainability Initiative ST concern Annex XIV 1 1 1 Hazardous Substances Process techniques, process optimization and 3. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 4. OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Replaced 2 3 4 5 5 60 Management System Requirements equipment modification. ST continuously Management System 5. Reach: Registration Evaluation Authorization and Restriction (HSPM standard1 IECQ 080000) and looks for ways to anticipate legislation of Chemicals responsible sources initiatives (GeSI2). and find alternatives to hazardous 56.1 55.7 chemicals. 55 54.3 ST is PFOS-free! Perfluorooctyl Sulfonates (PFOS) • 2003-2006: in non-critical 50 Performance against objectives are persistent and bioaccumulative applications where a substitute was substances used for photolithography available, we managed to replace • Reduce total consumption of chemicals by 5% per year* (per production unit). in Front-end semiconductor 90% of affected products before the 45 manufacturing. In 2003, ST began 2006 phase out date; 09 10 11 1220 • Strive towards continuous reduction and elimination of Substances of Very High Concern 13 to focus on finding replacements • 2007-2013: in ten of our 20 20 20 20 such as CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, toxic for Reproduction), bio-accumulative, for PFOS, going beyond the current technologies exempted due to the persistent, ODS (Ozone Depleting Substances) in our processes and products. Target REACH exemptions by completing lack of possible substitution at that • Ensure 100% of key suppliers and subcontractors fully commit to ST specifications their elimination from our production time, we engaged collaboration Consumption of chemicals and procedures (through ST EHS regulated substances list). processes in Crolles and Rousset with our suppliers to develop (France) sites in 2013. PFOS-free substitutes, redesigning Note 2009/2010 changed from 2011 • Strengthen our management of materials of concern in our manufacturing processes our manufacturing processes and through Chemical Risk Assessments. Our approach comprised of two making changes to our products. phases: (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE ENVIRONMENT Focus Waste ST Shenzhen (China) waste management Management According to ‘E-waste in China: A country report’1: “as a result of increased Chinese and worldwide consumption and turnover of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE), China is now facing serious e-waste problems from both growing domestic generation and foreign imports”. ST is committed to disposing of waste according to legal regulations and also to its EHS Decalogue targets. Spent resin is a key challenge for ST Shenzhen, representing the major industrial waste that cannot be re-used or recycled easily due to high volumes and the difficulty ST is committed to continuously Waste strategy An area for improvement that we have of finding a viable recycling partner. ST has addressed this challenge by reducing reducing, re-using, recycling and identified, and which we will act on in spent resin from the source and creating partnerships to revalorize it into brick. managing waste streams from ST’s EHS Decalogue requires that 2014, is the creation of a hazardous all sites meet whichever is the most As a result of these efforts, 95.5% of ST Shenzhen waste was re-used and recycled manufacturing sites in accordance with waste inventory to share best practices stringent of their national/local EHS and 4.4% of waste was sent to landfill in 2013. ST’s Waste Ladder1. Waste management among sites. includes the treatment, transportation regulations or the company EHS Policies 1. Source: E-waste in China: A country report – Authors from United Nations University Institute for Sustainability and Peace and elimination of waste, and covers and procedures. We established an 1. For more information, see ST seven steps Waste Ladder (UNU-ISP) and Tsinghua University (China) April 2013 all waste streams from operations integrated process for the environmental on www.st.com 2. Product-related waste is detailed in the Sustainable (hazardous substances, metals, packing, management of waste covering Technology pages 34-37 3. For more information, read Transport and Logistics on plastics and other non-biodegradable compliance, monitoring of the quantity pages 52-53 materials), surrounding activities (offices, of waste produced each year, data Waste (Tons) / EN22 canteen), and products2. collection, reporting and strict controls over the whole process. We also evaluate 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 waste storage, recycling, treatment and Waste management performance Total hazardous 9,391 11,365 10,415 12,624 11,031 disposal by subcontracting and waste waste In 2013, 91% of waste generated was transport companies. Total waste 33,439 40,775 38,593 37,511 36,091 recycled and re-used, while 4.9% was In 2014, we plan to reinforce our audit sent to landfill. Whilst these figures program of disposal companies to ensure 50 indicate the continuous progress we 51 our waste is treated and recycled in an have made in our waste management appropriate way. performance over the last 15 years, it has become increasingly difficult for us Waste split (Tons) / EN22 Waste split / EN22 to find additional ways to continually improve our performance and meet our 91% of waste recycled Landfill: 4.9% Siham Firouchane Decalogue targets. In order to reflect this, Incinerated: 3.7% the targets were revised in our 5th EHS and re-used Site Environmental Champion, Bouskoura (Morocco) Decalogue (see information on pages Hazardous waste 6-7) which was released in December “I worked in ST’s Quality department 2013. We are now committed to: ST pays particular attention to hazardous for nine years before I moved to the • Strive to reduce to zero the quantity waste generation and disposal. 79% is environment team in 2012. Both Reuse and recycled: 91.4% functions are quite different but of hazardous waste in landfill (except recycled or re-used and the remaining complementary. I am pleased to be where legally required); waste is safely disposed of by authorized able to use my extensive experience • Remain among the best-in-class companies. Valery Hergott of building systems to make my own companies with a reuse and recycle In accordance with the Basel Convention, Riposte Verte Director, (France) small contribution towards sustaining the waste rate at 90% or more; needs of future generations. 1.3% of ST’s hazardous waste was My waste management priorities • Remain among the best-in-class transported from Kirkop (Malta) to France “Every day one million tons of paper first involved segregating the waste companies with landfilled waste rate at in 2013, in order to recover metal from are consumed globally. In some parts of streams by treatment process and then 3% or less; the world, the wood industry threatens identifying a reliable partner to increase scrap waste as it could not be done ecosystems of inestimable value. Riposte • Strive to minimize our product packing locally. recycling and waste valorization. This Verte and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) enabled us to recycle or reuse 93% waste generation3. evaluated the paper policy of major of ST Bouskoura waste in 2013, but French companies in 2013. We ranked we continue to look at further system ST France in first place because it has improvements to exceed ST’s EHS dedicated objectives in place, as well Decalogue waste target.” Performance against objectives as robust implementation, low paper consumption, increased recycling rates and the use of Forest Stewardship • Re-use and recycle at least 95% of waste. Council (FSC) recycled paper. We’d like to see ST working towards including • Reduce the generation of waste by at least 5% per year (per production unit). other types of office paper (envelopes, • Reduce the generation of hazardous waste by at least 5% per year (per production unit). notebooks, etc.).” • Reduce landfill waste to less than 2%. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE ENVIRONMENT Focus Transport Lean packing of ST boxes & Logistics ST continued to deploy its lean packing program focusing on the outer carton used to fit the 13” Tape&Reel; ST’s highest non-optimized weight at this level of packing1. Three newly-designed outer boxes were introduced in our worldwide Back-end plants in 2013. As a result, the empty space inside the cartons has been reduced by approximately 1,400 cubic meters per year, equivalent to a Boeing 747400 plane. This solution is also being deployed to 16 subcontractors ST is committed to managing the social, operations have the lowest carbon tariffs. Business travel represents less than 1% within the Asia Pacific region. safety and environmental impacts We also continued to work on reducing of ST transport emissions. In 2013, we resulting from transportation and logistics short haul air-freight which has the installed a video-conferencing network 1. ST has four levels of packing. The outer carton box in which the 13” Tape&Reel is packed is classified as the 3rd level of packing for products, materials and employees, highest levels of CO2 emissions. The to reduce travel, and we will be working taking into consideration overall efficiency main factors driving our reduction in 2014 to further improve the process and reduction of CO2 emissions. included changes in the manufacturing and quality of data collection for business and distribution network, customer travel. Product transportation consolidation actions and shifting some and logistics of our shipments to road transport. 1. Scope 3 as defined in the GHG Protocol Focus Product transportation represents about Packing optimization 80% of ST transport emissions. In our and material New video conferencing network 5th edition of the EHS Decalogue for Scope 31 we have committed to reducing In our 5th EHS Decalogue, we have Today’s growth in communication technology has revolutionized the way CO2 emissions (tons CO2 per production an objective to minimize our product businesses work and keep in touch unit) from the transportation and packing waste generation. In 2013 we with employees and customers. In logistics for our products, materials continued to make progress in our lean 2013, ST equipped 25 sites with video 52 and employees. In order to meet this packing program which aims to optimize conferencing and telepresence rooms 53 commitment we are implementing package design and transportation in order to create a viable alternative several strategies including transport at all manufacturing sites to decrease to face-to-face meetings. Not only optimization, consolidated supplies, logistics costs, air-freight space and CO2 does this avoid a significant amount better route planning, distribution emissions. of carbon emissions but it also saves centers, use of efficient transport modes, considerable time and expense. Packing materials are aligned with RoHS better demand planning and increased requirements, and ST EHS regulated use of intermodal transport based on rail substances list. Whilst the majority of ST and shipping. packing materials are already phthalateIn 2013, our international air traffic free, ST is in the process of qualifying Carbon footprint of ST product transportation Packing density reduction Jun Koizumi Packing volume reduced due to a lower number and converting the remaining materials, Baseline ofdensity reduction 100 in 2010 HR Manager, 2010 2011 2012 2013 of delivery locations following our exit anticipating a future regulatory deadline. Tokyo (Japan) 100 from ST-Ericsson as well as from the Transport component of ST's 8.1 7.4 6.9 7.3 90 100 25 sites equipped with “ST Japan has offices in three densely total CO2 emissions (%) 80 96.7 93.9 rationalization of manufacturing in populated areas, Tokyo, Osaka and 91.2 Longgang (China). CO2 emissions due to video conferencing and Nagoya. To encourage employees product transportation 110.00 99.42 82.87 84.74 50 We remain focused on ensuring that, to use the convenient and punctual telepresence rooms in 2013 public transportation system, we have per year (kTons CO2) wherever possible, road freight and long developed a commuting scheme and haul air-freight is used as these two Employee transportation provide employees with an allowance 0 to fully cover their travelling expenses 10 11 12 3 Employee commuting represents which is tax exempt. In some special 20 20 20 20 1 Employee transportation plan (%) nearly 20% of ST transport emissions. cases, such as employee having a Performance against objectives Many of ST’s sites deploy employee disability, ST provides parking lots. Packing volume reduction 2013 As public transport is very crowded, transportation programs with the aim of • Reduce the carbon footprint of ST we have implemented flexible working Employees covered by a transportation plan 58.81 encouraging employees to use greener time, with core hours between 10am to product transportation by 15% modes of transportation than individual 3pm, employees are then free to decide Depending on the site size, the needs and the local infrastructure, ST adapts by 2014*. cars. In 2013, 58.81% of employees when they work their remaining hours. its support. It can be: allowances, company cars, private and public buses, • Ensure that all sites have a formalized were covered by such plans. We are proud that nearly 100% of ST trains, bikes, electrical bikes, car-pooling networks, shuttles, taxi services for Japan employees commute to working employees working late, mass transit reimbursement, hire of mini vans for transportation plan to promote Our aim is to expand the coverage of direct employees, etc. alternative and greener modes of using public transportation!” these plans with particular focus on transportation and evaluate the non-manufacturing sites. benefits*. (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 Our community Our management approach • ST deploys the EICC Corporate Responsibility model throughout its supply chain • 77.3% of suppliers, 100% of Front-end subcontractors and 98.3% of Back-end subcontractors are ISO 14001 certified or EMAS validated • ST local initiatives’ inputs and outcomes are evaluated using the London Benchmarking Group’s methodology • ST promotes the electronic industry’s potential in all countries where we operate with many employees, including Corporate and Executive Vice Presidents, members of key industry and international organizations For more information, see www.st.com/the-community 54 55 Key results More than 90% 385 525 community partnerships with of ST suppliers involvement and subcontractors universities, colleges initiatives worldwide and schools signed the EICC Code of Conduct THE COMMUNITY Encouraging communication on EHS & social KPI’s deployed to suppliers Sustainability in performance 2012 2013 In 2013, we requested our suppliers Number of Front-end publicly communicate their sustainability materials suppliers 18 34 performance. Suppliers responded by engaged in reporting the Supply Chain sharing their reports or including evidence on their websites of how they are working towards achieving their sustainability indicators. Some of our suppliers have Number of Back-end materials suppliers engaged in reporting Number of key Back-end 45 43 Claude Prédal gone further and taken this opportunity subcontractors plants 24 27 Global Procurement Organization to develop their own Corporate Social engaged in reporting Purchasing Regional Director, As part of their contract with ST, Monitoring conflict minerals data suppliers, 93.4% of equipment and Responsibility (CSR) programs. Crolles (France) suppliers and subcontractors are ICT suppliers, 92.1% of spare parts Suppliers facilities SAQs scoring by EICC of our suppliers To optimize resources, we exempt from required to commit to ST and EICC suppliers, and 100% of subcontractors Code of Conduct main section (%) “Since 2011, ST has been a member of our audit process the suppliers who policies and standards, comply with ST began to address conflict minerals and foundries. These key procurement the Pacte PME Association, which aims to now have a standardized process in support the growth of innovative French legislation and meet our customer in its supply chain in 2007, and we segments represent more than 80% of 2012 2013 place and can give us evidence of their small and medium size enterprises (SMEs). requirements. This includes managing have been reporting on our approach ST purchase volume. performance, which we evaluate also Pacte PME is result oriented and provides health, safety and the environment, along to managing this critical issue since • Phase 2 risk assessment process: Health and safety 90.2 90.3 tools and support to help its members taking into account their certifications with social and ethical aspects. These 2010 (please see pages 38-39 for more in this phase suppliers are required improve their relationship with SMEs. and publications. Environment 86.8 90.7 requirements contribute to raising the details). During the last year, conflict to complete a self-assessment As ST’s representative, I realized that minerals took greater precedence, Labor and ethics 87.9 87.7 ST’s positive impact on French SME was overall levels of corporate responsibility questionnaire (SAQ), and the number not recognized enough. Therefore, I across the electronic industry’s supply involving increasing resources to ensure of questionnaires completed has submitted to a joint committee comprising chains. that we meet the reporting requirements increased from 246 in 2012 to 284 SMEs, Groups and State representatives Total number of suppliers and subcontractors’ SAQs by level of risk of our customers. in 2013. Analysis of the results has our indicators, the definition of our action 2013 highlights shown some improvements. No 2013 plan and the evidence of the mobilization EICC deployment in the supply suppliers were identified as at risk Low risk Medium risk High risk Average score of all concerned actors to support the We have made progress in addressing Association’s objectives. As a result, in social responsibility throughout our chain at a global level, and we have also Back-end materials suppliers 58 7 0 89.4% September 2013, ST received a “positive identified a reduction in the number assessment” from the Pacte PME. This supply chain by ensuring the products We strengthened our supplier EICC Front-end materials suppliers of issues. This has enabled us to 65 4 0 90.3% recognition reflects the commitment we sell are produced in a responsible monitoring program, by encouraging taken by our Global Procurement reduce the number of sections at risk Back-end subcontractors 27 4 0 89.0% manner. After being excluded in 2012, our key suppliers to join the three-phase Organization on behalf of ST towards the by 30%, down to an average of less 56 we re-joined the Europe Dow Jones program. Equipments suppliers 13 2 0 88.4% Pacte PME. 57 than one out of a total of 27 sections. In 2013, for the first time, I initiated Sustainability Index, with an improved • Phase 1 code of conduct agreement: Front-end subcontractors 4 0 0 88.2% We are continuing to improve in this ST participation to the “Baromètre score in the Supply Chain section (+6) this involves signing a letter of area through regular contact with Total 89.1% Pacte PME”, a yearly survey, where and continued our improvement path engagement agreeing to comply with 334 suppliers rated ST on innovation, our suppliers to monitor and ensure through the EICC framework. the EICC Code of Conduct. The latest contractual relationships, partnership, implementation of the action plans, version (V4) of the code of conduct and support for development. ST scored and by performing thorough checks an average across all companies of was ratified by 96.7% of material on all new suppliers. 57/100. We achieved the second highest Focus response rate, demonstrating the close relationships we have built with our ST score in the DJSI Supply suppliers. They told us: Performance against objectives Chain section increased by Towards a forced-labor free • Innovation: they appreciate that ST 6 points respects their IP but would benefit • Ensure 80% of key suppliers (by purchasing volume) are involved in the EICC compliance supply chain from ST financially participating in development and testing; program (annually). • Contractual relationship: they The California Transparency in Supply to workers, such as management • Phase 3 performance control through appreciate that ST respects contractual • Ensure none of the suppliers are classified “high risk” based on Self-Assessment Chains Act requires companies of employees’ travel documents commitments but would like the process Questionnaires (SAQs). audits: while we are satisfied that doing business in California to and excessive recruitment agency to be faster and simpler. our approach is bringing positive communicate their efforts to combat fees that could constitute binding Knowing how we are perceived by our • Continuously reduce the number of non-conformances arising from SAQs and audits. human trafficking and forced labor in constraints to workers. results, conducting numerous audits suppliers and our areas for improvement, • Ensure 100% of ST major sites deploy the EICC approach to local suppliers*. remains one of our challenges, their own supply chains. Several of ST Global Procurement Organization In Singapore, where the percentage especially in a period of budget our major customers are impacted will continue to work with all involved • In 2013, deploy the Green Procurement guidelines in Italy*. of foreign workers in direct labor can constraints. This is why we have and we are committed to supporting stakeholders so that ST becomes a be higher than 50%, we have put in their efforts to have a forced-labor customer of choice for innovative French • By the end of 2013, track the business with French SMEs for procurement done in France. been encouraging our suppliers to place a comprehensive human rights SMEs.” free supply chain. • As an active member of the French “Charte des Relations Fournisseurs Responsables” commission third party EICC audits, due diligence approach to ensure fair (Charter for Responsible suppliers relationships), participate in the steering committee. based on risk assessments. In 2013, As an example of measures that hiring practices for migrant workers. our performance evaluation includes have been taken to mitigate risks This involves raising awareness of • Ensure business ethics: 100% of Global Procurement and Outsourcing buyers to sign the the recognition of suppliers who have related to forced-labor, ST has applicable company standards, as business ethics letter. been consistently working on and well as the monitoring and regular undergone third party audits. With making incremental improvements audit of our recruitment agents. We • To ensure continuous improvement, implement a supplier survey and define an action plan. good coverage of our subcontractors to our foreign and migrant worker are now implementing this approach (35% of our purchasing volume) at the recruitment process. We focus across our Chinese and Malaysian • Ensure fair treatment of ST suppliers: 100% of our payment terms to be in line with the French law on the Modernization of the Economy (LME). end of 2013, the next step will be to particularly on areas that pose a risk manufacturing sites. focus on foundries. (*) Objective discontinued in 2014 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE COMMUNITY Community Benefits experienced by direct beneficiaries as Benefits the resultexperienced by direct Focus Non-manufacturing site activities Involvement of ST community involvement beneficiaries activities (%) as the result of ST community involvement activities (%) ST provided samples of different 65 products such as discovery kits, 60.5 Bluetooth modules, MEMS, power stage diodes and LED drivers and technical support. Our involvement in local 55 communities The iNEMO Design Contest is open to students and young engineers in The ST Community Involvement program 48.0 China and Taiwan to design innovative forms a central pillar of our culture applications built around ST’s 45 award-winning iNEMO smart multiwith many site-based initiatives and activities providing social, economic sensor technology. Seven ST and environmental support. Effective employees from Taipei (Taiwan) volunteered an estimated 1,456 hours engagement has the potential to benefit Employees from the Americas region 35 and donated ST iNEMO design many stakeholders, including local donated US$ 63,200 to 53 charities, boards to 349 students and ten communities, governments and other an amount which ST matched. Nearly we have moved a step further in evaluatechnology to help advance development 29.5 partner organizations. areas of civil society. For ST, it is also 170 ST employees throughout ting the outcomes for a portion of the in less privileged communities around the Americas Region contributed an ST Paris (France) site director a strong lever to increase employee activities, to start assessing the impact of globe. 25 estimated 378 paid hours volunteering coordinates the PLATO project which engagement. our contribution on both the community in their local communities. In Coppell provides monthly coaching to help We have identified six key areas where The “core focus” of the Foundation is the 13 and on our business. 20 (USA), ST employees helped develop local small and medium sized we seek to make a difference: Digital Unify program. The Foundation construct ‘Hope Park’, a playground Benefits measured for 6% of ST total number businesses. The site also participates • Environmental involvement; To help us better track and measure our establishes computer training centers of activities and based on a survey in Frisco, Texas for special needs in a working group of 10 companies • Economic development; community activities we created a comin collaboration with local partners. Experienced a positive change in their children, built and donated bikes to from the Montrouge area to develop • Innovation and high technology; munity involvement workspace on our ST volunteers are brought in to train behaviour or attitude underprivileged children and made and share best practices on • Social welfare and charity; intranet platform. This workspace, availocal trainers who in turn cascade the Developed new skills or an increase in their children’s blankets for Project Linus. managing local suppliers, mobility 58 personal effectiveness 59 • Supporting ST Foundation; lable to all of our sites, provides a library Informatics and Computer Basics (ICB) and disability initiatives. For the fifth consecutive year ST • Young generation and education. of information and case studies, as well course to the community. Training Experienced a direct positive impact on their Budapest (Hungary) was the main quality of life 17 ST volunteers from ST Seoul as an opportunity for sites to share ideas is offered free of charge to people sponsor of the autonomous (Korea) organized two ‘Babpur’ For ST, community and experiences and company tools to who want to develop their computer ROBONAUT competition, organized events in 2013 for 1,800 senior record their own program data. It is then literacy skills to help them increase their by the Technical University in citizens. Babpur is a Korean word involvement is also a consolidated at corporate level. employment potential or to enable them Budapest. The challenge consists of used to describe the humble act of strong lever to increase to reach higher education goals. asking students to replace the original cooking and serving meals to those employee engagement We are finalizing an ST Community Involelectronic boards of model cars with in need. vement Charter to formalize community Our Digital Unify program has reached more intelligent electronics. We have been using the London Benchengagement throughout the company, 218,729 people in 22 countries since marking Group (LBG) methodology since and to provide guidance to sites on the its inception in 2003. In 2013 alone the 2012 to assess the value and impact of best way to create and manage commuFoundation trained 42,257 people, a our community involvement activities, in nity programs. This will be rolled out in 49% increase over 2012 and we installed cash contributions, estimated employee 2014. 30 new informatics centers, as well as volunteering time, in-kind donations and rolling out the program to China and the ST community involvement contributions Mei Zhen Lee associated management costs. In 2012 Philippines. in 2013: Senior Social worker, Care Corner Family 2013 Direct beneficiary for the first time, our network of Sustai• Cash donations US$ 1,593,908; Service Centre (Toa Payoh, Singapore) 2013 Direct beneficiary groupsgroups (%) (%) repartition nable Excellence Coordinators identified • 385 initiatives worldwide; the activities undertaken across ST sites • Involvement of 40 sites in 23 countries; Supporting “More than 300 ST employees of Ang Others 12.3% Children/ Teenagers 3.9% the victims and have evaluated their inputs. In 2013 Mo Kio (Singapore) collaborated on • 9,943 ST employees volunteered their Affected by a natural or man made disaster 1.4% the Home-Aid 2013 project to enhance time; Developing country communities 4.8% of the typhoon the living environment of low-income • 177,592 hours have been donated families. Eight different teams from ST Seniors/ Elderly people 0.4% during company time; in the Philippines each adopted a family and spent at Performance against objectives least one full day sprucing, cleaning • 34,495 beneficiaries and 826 People on low incomes/ Unemployed 0.3% and refurbishing their homes. In addition organizations impacted. On November 8th 2013, the Haiyan to having their home environment Students 76.9% • Support ST Foundation’s initiatives. I SO1 I EC1 I EC8 typhoon struck the Philippines with enhanced, the families also received • Ensure evaluation of ST community devastating consequences. ST launched replacements for old electrical involvment initiatives with a 85% ST Foundation a global voluntary fundraising campaign, appliances and essential household confidence rate. with the company matching the donaitems. Since its creation in 2001, the ST tions raised by employees. Contributions The positive interaction between ST and • Launch a process to identify ST Foundation has dedicated its efforts to the families was noteworthy as visiting to the victims totaled US$ 291,500 with community involvement outputs and low-income rental flats in Singapore was developing, managing and supporting the majority of the money going to the impacts. a new experience for some ST staff.” projects that employ the use of International Red Cross organization. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE COMMUNITY Partnerships in R&D Focus and Education France: DynEO keys to operational excellence We are continually looking for Some of our programs and material testing facilities to provide ST is the co-founder of DynEO, a industrial context and provides opportunities to strengthen our existing shorter turn-around times, reduce LEAN factory-training facility that networking opportunities. Services relationships and develop new Europe: Global Enterprise Project analysis costs and attract potential helps companies to improve their include customizable training partnerships in R&D and education. investors. ST Calamba’s Quality Director, competitiveness and maximize programs, diagnosis and project ST became a sponsor of the European performance. DynEO aims to expertise, and the conception of We collaborate with our customers Global Enterprise Project (GEP) in Antonio Villaflor, sits on the Steering further drive lean innovations by new innovative models. and other semiconductor companies 2011. The program aims to equip 15Committee set up to oversee the running drawing on competencies from to further product development and of ADMATEL as a semiconductor The facility’s advantageous 18 old students with the proficiencies schools, universities, industry applications, and we work closely with industry advisor. location close to our Rousset site required to succeed in a global bodies and businesses to build R&D and educational organizations (France) also aims to maintain and economy. Students are taught soft skills, a common industry culture. It Ang Mo Kio (Singapore): a multitude develop the industrial network to advance our research capabilities. entrepreneurship and business acumen also reinforces small and medium of initiatives and its associated services in this We aim to increase young people’s companies by giving them access through a learning-by-doing approach, region. employability by providing them with ST partners with local universities and to operational excellence. which requires them to leverage their access to PhDs, apprenticeships and For further information contact: language, maths, science, creativity and institutions to support our research DynEO adapts the Lean internship experience. dyneo@ensam.eu team work skills to achieve results. and to ensure the availability of longmethodology to the specific We have a successful cluster model term local engineering and technical GEP ran in 11 European countries in in place and continue to rely on the resources. We develop innovative 2013, involving 12,000 students over two knowledge and expertise of our regions collaborations, help to design courses Rajeev Kapoor years. As part of ST’s involvement in the Partnerships with the academic and sites to develop fruitful partnerships adapted to industrial needs, provide Group Manager CCDS RET Noida Team program, 12 of our employees coached community / S01 Partnerships / EC1 with the academic community / S01 / EC1 60 with local R&D and education training leading to national certifications, Greater Noida (India) 61 GEP mini-company students both in organizations. In the difficult context we advise on industrial standards and labor 700 France and Italy and participated in the faced in 2013, we slowed down slightly market trends and participate in seminars “We have observed that nowadays European Innovation camp and contests. 659 University students increasingly feel the the activity, but the practices in place and workshops. We also donate working 650 need to better align themselves with enabled to maintain the win-win positive tools and equipment, and award Italy More innovation through current industry skills and know-how, impact that strategic alliances create for NeaPolis Innovation book prizes to deserving polytechnics thus becoming more valued by and 600 cross-fertilization and synergistic ways of students. relevant to the industry. This feeling In Italy, we have a tradition of reaching was echoed by Senior Academia, keen working. out to schools and universities, through learning programs designed and 525 partnerships 550 525 to work with us to provide this essential exposure to their students. Facilitating students’ delivered by our experts to generate with universities, colleges ST University Committee launched the 500 employability interest in our company and products. and schools 470 478 joint M.Tech summer program in 2013, as a unique collaborative experience for Partnerships with universities, colleges, In 2013 we accommodated more than Through the NeaPolis Innovation schools: teaching programs, internship academia and students as well as the ST program, in 2013 we deployed courses Our internships (24 in Ang Mo Kio 450 programs and recruitment* expert faculty involved. The Committee 500 students globally within 20 ST to five universities, raising students’ in 2013), available to both local and primarily consists of a consulting Professor organizations. Many of our sites organize awareness of ST products and overseas students, offer students a 400 374 and domain experts well networked immersion weeks for secondary level with academia. Of course the success providing them with software, practical practical work experience in industry. pupils, giving them a taste of “life at of the program also relies on the active work”. Thesis days, where students development board kits and advanced ST partnered with the National Junior 350 support from both Human Resources and present their research studies to courses on real time systems and RTOS College (NJC) to mentor students on 09 10 11 1220 Facilities. 20 20 20 20 13 We collaborated with two universities employees, are also well appreciated technology. The initiative has been a environment projects that help students (IIIT, Delhi & SNU) to create a program and enable fruitful exchanges. huge success, with professors observing to understand how environmental issues involving classroom teaching and handsan increase in student attendance on impact all aspects of life. ST received on experience for a variety of subjects courses offered by NeaPolis Innovation. the Certificate of Sustained Partnership linked to design, testing and multimedia (Bronze Award) for this program. computing. These courses, held in the Calamba (the Philippines) DOST Greater Noida campus, were ably led by ADMATEL Partnership. ST engineers and managers actively our domain experts. participate in career fairs, lively events A few top performing students were then Inaugurated in May 2013 by the where they engage with students offered a chance to pursue their thesis or Performance against objectives an internship at ST India. This partnership President of the Philippines, the curious about the real-world industry, thereby literally becoming a ‘win-winAdvanced Device and Materials Testing thus asserting our role in building local • For the mid-to long-term: raise young win’.” Laboratory (ADMATEL) is a program talent and interest in the semiconductor populations’ employability by providing run in partnership with the government industry. access to PhD, apprenticeships and internship experience. Department of Science and Technology. It aims to upgrade local failure analysis More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 71 THE COMMUNITY Focus on Asia Board of Advisors for the Singapore • Virginia Melba Cuyahon, General Public Affairs and Semiconductor Industry Association Manager of PTM Calamba (the As an innovator and technology leader, and is board member of the European Philippines), who is board member a key part of ST’s role as a responsible Chamber of Commerce in Singapore of Semiconductor and Electronics social citizen lies in sharing our and the Alliance Française de Industries of the Philippines, Inc.; Industry Networking knowledge and experience with our Singapour; and Chairman and President of Light stakeholders in order to address some • Georges Auguste, Executive VP and Industry & Science Park II Locators of the biggest challenges faced by the General Manager, Packaging & Test Association Inc. societies in which we operate. This Manufacturing (PTM), who is board sharing of information is the main focus of member of the Singapore International 1. For more information on Horizon 2020 priorities, see http:// our public affairs and networking activities Chamber of Commerce; ec.europa.eu/programmes/horizon2020/en/h2020-sections 2. For more information, see www.redressement-productif. in Asia, where we actively participate in a • Vivek Sharma, Regional VP, India gouv.fr/nouvelle-france-industrielle number of industry councils, governmentOperations and Director, India Design 3. The French business association for the electric, electronic and communications industry linked bodies and other associations. The Center, who is member of the Executive 4. Fluorinated gases are often used as substitutes for ozone-depleting substances because they do not damage efforts have helped to shape the industry Council of Indian Semiconductor the atmospheric ozone layer. However, F-gases are powerful In today’s world it is essential for challenges1. As part of this commitment automotive, rail and air transportation. direction and indirectly raise ST’s standing Association, the Indo-Italian Chamber of greenhouse gases, with a global warming effect up to 23,000 times greater than carbon dioxide (CO2 ), and their emissions a leading company such as ST to Horizon 2020 launched a new publicThe conclusions will be presented to the and goodwill amongst its stakeholders. Commerce, the Indo-France Chamber are rising strongly proactively engage in public and industry private joint undertaking, named French President in June 2014. of Commerce and the European ST’s main actors in Public Affairs and affairs with a range of stakeholders such “Electronic Components and Systems Business Group of India; Industry Networking in Asia are: as trade associations, industry groups for Economic Leadership” (‘ECSEL’), Carlo Bozotti, ST President • Giuseppe Izzo, Regional VP and and standard-setting bodies. This whose goal is to gather all necessary and CEO, is part of the • Francois Guibert, Executive VP and General Manager of Taiwan Operations, engagement helps us to fulfill our role as expertise and financial means in order European Electronics President, Greater China & South who chairs the European Chamber of a responsible citizen and to ensure our to keep Europe at the forefront of the Asia region, who chairs the EULeaders Group Commerce in Taiwan; long-term viability in a highly competitive global market for electronic components ASEAN Business Council and the market. and systems. Managers from ST France In Italy, ST has been an active participant and Italy are actively engaged in this new Throughout 2013 ST participated in in the efforts of the Italian Association for program. a number of local, national, European Industrial Research (‘AIRI’) to promote Focus and industry initiatives with the following Another important public-private Key Enabling Technologies KETs objectives: initiative stemming from Horizon 2020 (nanotechnology, micro-nano-electronics, • To promote the competitiveness of is the Electronics Leaders Group (the advanced materials, photonics, 62 the semiconductor industry in the countries in which we operate; ‘ELG’). The ELG’s mission is to work on a strategic roadmap defining the industrial biotechnology and advanced manufacturing systems) with the aim ENI2 – a two-way bridge 63 • To create and observe good sustainability practices; specific steps that Europe should take to maintain its leading edge in the of improving the global competitive position of the Italian electronic industry. between academic knowledge • To efficiently manage sustainabilitydesign and manufacturing of microand Via our membership of AIRI’s Nanotech Eric Jourde and marketable products related risks and opportunities. nano-electronics. The group comprises IT group, ST Italy engages closely with Director General FIEEC : The European Nano-electronics of creating mid and long-term 11 CEOs from the leading electronics a number of stakeholders including Association for electrical, Infrastructure for Innovation technology roadmaps for Involvement in European companies of Europe and includes Carlo industrial groups, businesses, research electronic & digital industries (France) (‘ENI2’), which was initiated by cooperative R&D projects in programs Bozotti, President and CEO of ST. centers, universities, public research Gilles Casanova, ST European nano-electronics. bodies, associations, science parks, “FIEEC is the French business association programs Director, was officially Investment in research and innovation ST is also committed to the creation of in charge of representing and promoting The vision is that ENI2 will and financial institutions. Our activity recognized by the European is key to promoting the competitiveness good sustainability practices. As such, electronic, electrical and digital accelerate the move of an in this group covers a wide range of Union in 2013. The principle aim of the semiconductor industry as well we contributed to the review of EU industries at national, European and innovation in one direction stakeholder concerns including the of ENI2 is to optimize the time, legislation which aims to achieve the international levels. Our objective is to from academic laboratory to as to addressing the pressing societal identification of priority technologies for efforts and funding spent on emission reduction target for fluorinated answer society’s needs while creating the marketable product and an challenges facing our world today such the Italian industry and the promotion of necessary business friendly conditions for R&D efforts in nanotechnology. greenhouse gases4 as defined for 2030. efficient feedback flow in the other as climate change, an aging population stakeholder dialogue. our industry. Its approach is to bring together which will contribute to improving and the move towards a more resourceOur association fully supports the key actors from across the R&D how the results are exploited efficient society. Focus on France and Italy In 2013, ST Crolles and Grenoble played objective of a sustainable economy. We spectrum, including academies, by academic institutes and an active role in the creation of a new have been addressing environmental research institutes, multinationals Therefore, we welcomed the formalization On a national level, ST has actively universities. academic and industrial partnership issues for a long time, building extensive and SMEs from 15 European of Horizon 2020, a new European funded participated in the efforts of the French expertise (RoHS, REACH, WEEE… ), countries, with the objective between Europe and Russia. The and are now focusing on an overall program for research and development government to increase France’s Grenoble cluster, a leading center of approach by taking into account the and its threefold commitment to excellent competitiveness in the electronics innovation of which ST has long been a social and societal challenges of a science, industrial leadership and societal market. In 2013, President François member, signed an agreement with the sustainable economy. Hollande announced 34 sector-based ST is very involved in the FIEEC working Muscovite Zelenograd Microelectronic initiatives with the aim of creating an groups, bringing valuable support Cluster. This agreement was possible through expertize and best practices. “industrial renaissance” in France2. Performance against objectives thanks to our long-term partnership with In 2013, STMicroelectronics provided ST France contributed to four of Mikron, a key player in the Zelenograd very useful input to the FIEEC “corporate those initiatives; cloud computing, • Strengthen our network of public and cluster. social responsibility guide” which is supercomputers, cyber-security and going to become one of the flagships industrial affairs activities worldwide; nano-electronics. In addition, as part The draft regulation is important for ST of our industry. ST also participates create and observe good sustainability of our involvement in the FIEEC3’s since it defines our strategy for some at management level with Gérard practices as well as efficiently manage MATHERON as FIEEC VP and President mobility working group, ST contributed fluorinated gases substitution within the sustainability-related risks and of ACSIEL, Alliance for electronic opportunities. to transport initiatives relating to ST European perimeter till 2030. components and systems.” THE COMPANY June, France excellence in smart card design October, Geneva Awards and production. For the second year in a row ST was ranked among the 100 most innovative August, Grenoble (France) companies in the world by Thomson During the National Instruments week Reuters, which recognizes companies in Austin, ST Grenoble failure analysts who are leading the charge in terms of received the Graphical Design System innovation as measured by a series of Each year our sites receive external recognition for their sustainability practices. Achievement award in the automated test proprietary patent-related metrics. category for optimization of parametric Here is an overview for 2013. defect localization on integrated circuits. November, United States The French “ElectroniqueS” magazine ST received recognitions at three levels awarded ST an “Electron d’Or” for the September, Santa Clara by the global trade association MEMs October, Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) ST31 secure microcontroller product (United States) Our People The Human Resources magazine Our Products family; a new platform for highly-secure During the Cisco’s 22nd annual supplier Industry Group: awarded our site four recognitions at smartcard applications in areas such appreciation event, ST received a • Company ST was named ‘Company July, Kirkop (Malta) the Benefits Asia Awards 2013: April, United States as banking, identification, pay TV and sustainability award for demonstrating Of The Year’ for our continuing success transport. transparency and accountability for the in expanding our product line, growing • Best in Benefits Technology and environmental and social impacts of the MEMS business and demonstrating Administration Processes for July, Marcianise (Italy) their operations and for demonstrating industry leadership. organizations with either streamlined leadership through industry-wide • People Benedetto Vigna was named or adopted new technologies initiatives. ‘Executive Of The Year’ for his success and platforms to improve their October, France in driving the expansion of MEMs compensation and benefits ST received an Innovation Management technology. administration processes. award from BearingPoint for its Fully• Product We were awarded ‘Device The Electronic Industry Citizenship At the Annual Creativity in Eletronics • Best in Healthcare and Well-being Depleted Silicon-on-Insulator (FD-SOI) Of The Year’ for the world’s smallest Coalition (EICC) awarded ST Kirkop an ceremony, our Fully-Depleted Silicon-onprograms for organizations that have technology in the ‘Innovation Ecosystem’ e-Compass, the LSM303C which has EICC facility recognition for their good Insulator (FD-SOI) technology received gone the extra mile to ensure their ST Marcianise received an award from category. applications in all smartphones and audit result which demonstrated full an award for its ability to reduce energy employees’ health is being taken Confindustria Caserta for its process innovative context-sensitive devices. compliance to the EICC Code. consumption and carbon emissions. care of thanks to excellent healthcare benefits and well-being programs. 64 August, Calamba 65 (the Philippines) November, Shenzhen (China) In the Quality Circles Regional The Environment ST Shenzhen received an award from The Community Convention, three teams received Gold Shenzhen Futian District Council worth awards: June, Grenoble (France) US$ 8,000 (50,000 CNY) for being a March, Rousset (France) July, Calamba (the Philippines) ST Grenoble received a prize for its model environmental company and ST Calamba received an award from The • The Fatal Error Reduction team for promotion of a one-day fun challenge for its sustained efforts in five areas Philippine Red Cross for its 14th year of a project to eliminate the Z-lift motor as part of the third Rhône-Alpes Mobility including site layout, environmental service and seven employees received breakdown on strip test handlers; • Best in Employee Career Development Challenge. The organizers award prizes organization and communications, the Blood Galloner award. for employers who have rolled out to regional and local institutions who environmental management systems, • The UDM Savers team for a project to programs to develop their employees’ demonstrate exemplary behavior in pollution control and ‘green office’ July, Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) reduce the use of UDM coolant; skills, improve their productivity and encouraging alternative environmentallyinitiatives. ST Ang Mo Kio received a Valued Partner assist them in establishing and working friendly transportation to the car. of Care Corner Family Services Centre • The AeroPhonics team for a project towards their career goals. December, Calamba recognition from Care Corner Singapore, to improve the yield of Aero Products. (the Philippines) June, Shenzhen (China) ST Rousset was recognized by the a welfare organization, for actively Aero is a division name, thus • Best in Employee Benefits ST received a Don Emilio Abello Energy ST Shenzhen received an award from French Blood Establishment for its improving the lives of senior citizens and AeroProducts (STE Products) are units Communication for companies which Efficiency award for achieving 3.8% the municipal government for being outstanding contribution during the families in Toa Payoh. used for Aero phones application. have adopted a clever and effective energy-savings or 727,041 liters of oil an outstanding company in the Peng last 10 years with an average of 600 communication strategy to clearly equivalent, estimated value of US$ 625k Jian Fei program due to its substantial donations a year, a record! communicate the compensation and (PhP 28.2M) (equivalent to 1,170 tons efforts in pollution reduction and energy benefits package to all employees at all of CO2 avoided). May, Calamba (the Philippines) conservation during 2012. levels of the organization. ST Calamba was awarded the Certificate October, Ang Mo Kio of Appreciation by the Children’s Joy December, Muar (Malaysia) (Singapore) Foundation, Inc. for its benevolent ST Muar’s Emergency Response team ST Ang Mo Kio received a certificate of support to “feed, clothe, shelter, and send received an award from the Malaysian Sustained Partnership (a bronze award) to school three million” disadvantaged or Fire and Rescue department (Bomba) in from the National Environment Agency underprivileged children. recognition of their high level commitment for having partnered with National Junior and skill in handling emergency College for over three years as part of situations. The team members undertook the Corporate and School Partnership a series of training sessions dedicated to program under which schools and fire-fighting and rescue skills and were corporate entities work together on evaluated for their response time. environmental projects. THE COMPANY Additional indicators & GRI statement New 2014 Objectives Company Enterprise Risk Management Governance Supervisory Board On a yearly basis, we review with their owners the objectives for each sustainability priority. Some 2013 objectives have been achieved, some will be discontinued because they are no longer meaningful to ST Audit Committee and some have been revised. Please find below the new objectives set for 2014 and beyond. Quarterly or annual ERM process assurance Annual ERM review Corporate ERM function support reviews (requests for information/corrective actions) Recruitment: Ensure that each ST organization is 100% aligned Quarterly updates (priority risks / Independent Audits reviews with the quarterly workforce plan execution Requests to investigate specific mitigation action plans) risk management topics Corporate Strategic Committee RECRUITMENT, Internal Mobility: Deploy new SOP and monitor internal posting + Chief Audit & Risk Executive + ad hoc members Specific analyses addressing LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT of all the relevant job requisitions Audit Committee requests Keep voluntary turnover within 10% worldwide, excluding operators Annual top-down / corporate-level risk map Ensure a worldwide average of 35 hours of learning per employee Quarterly follow-up on mitigation action plans Our People Ad-hoc analyses & meetings as required Annually increase the overall engagement index EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Following engagement surveys, ensure that each Corporate Vice President sponsors action plans to address employees’ key Top priorities / risk mitigation objectives Annual consolidation expectations Bottom-up risk maps / ERM implementation objectives mitigation action plans Quarterly reporting (priority risks & action plans) Extend EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) to three Alerts LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS Non-Manufacturing sites, in addition to all manufacturing sites Sales & Marketing Sense & Power and EMPLOYEE SAFETY, Reduce our Recordable Cases rate to 0.2 or less Automotive Products HEALTH & WELL-BEING Reduce our severity rate to 2.3 or less Embedded Processing Solutions Corporate Staff Functions GLOBAL DIVERSITY In each region, increase by 1% the percentage of women from job & EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES grades15 and above Central Manufacturing Operations 66 66 Our Products 67 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ST sales by market channel* (%) / EC1 / 2.7 External hires in manufacturing (%) CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Delinquency on Requested Date to be at 0.35 week of sales OEM 84.2 79.1 77.3 77.6 74.4 Percentage of jobs filled 92 96 90 95 95 Distribution 15.8 20.9 22.7 22.4 25.6 externally vs overall jobs filled (*) Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”) are the end-customers which are directly followed by Hires by job type / LA1 us in terms of marketing application engineering support, while Distribution customers refers to the distributors and representatives that we engage to distribute our products around the world. Exempt 538 3,573 2,563 2,721 1,770 Non-exempts 639 1,884 1,728 1,716 1,586 Continuously improve water efficiency at equivalent production level Net revenues by location of order shipment* (%) / EC1 / 2.7 Operators 5,984 8,193 5,154 6,833 8,013 WATER MANAGEMENT through water saving programs and water recycling projects (m3 per EMEA 28.4 25.0 23.9 24.7 24.2 Total 7,161 13,650 9,445 11,270 11,369 production unit) Americas 11.9 12.9 13.8 14.7 15.1 Greater China-South Asia 40.6 44.1 44.8 41.9 42.1 Newcomers induction program (%) Continuously improve energy efficiency at equivalent production level Newcomers who participated Japan-Korea 19.1 18.0 17.5 18.7 18.6 (kWh per production unit) through process and facilities optimization, in a formal induction session (*) Net revenues by location of order shipment are classified by location of customer invoiced or ENERGY MANAGEMENT conservation and building design reclassified by shipment destination in line with customer demand. For example, products ordered by (e.g. Newcomers Seminar) 72.35 97.23 97.29 97.75 72.00 The Environment Yearly increase by 10% the quantity of green energy used by the U.S.-based companies to be invoiced to Greater ChinaSouth Asia affiliates are classified as Greater China-South Asia revenues. Furthermore, the comparison among the different periods may be affected by shifts in shipment from one location to another, as requested by our customers. during their first year of employment Company Workforce by employment type (% of employees) / LA1 Taxes (US$m) / EC1 Full time contract 97.88 97.85 97.74 97.43 97.28 Strive towards continuous control, reduction or elimination of risks Tax expense for the year (34) 183 205 79 72 Part time contract 2.12 2.15 2.26 2.57 2.72 and of substances of concern in our processes and activities for an environmentally friendlier, safer and healthier working place Dividends paid (US$m) / EC1 Workforce by contract type (% of employees) / LA1 CHEMICALS MANAGEMENT Ensure that all sites adopt an approach based on precautionary Dividends 158 212 327 355 346 Regular contract 97.41 96.56 97.48 98.21 96.33 principles when assessing the EHS impacts of new operational Temporary contract 2.59 3.44 2.52 1.79 3.67 processes, chemicals and materials Remuneration (%) Transportation emissions (Scope 3**): reduce CO2 emissions (tons Our people Employees below the ST minimum salary scale in 12.0 16.6 12.8 13.9 18.5 TRANSPORT & LOGISTICS CO2 per production unit) from transportation and logistics for our their job grade products, materials and employees Employees covered by Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 annual individual salary 0 95.2 96.9 98.5 91.8 Headcount evolution by region / LA1 The Community Americas 1,802 1,701 1,176 1,158 967 increase Benefits, bonus & USA Asia Pacific 20,652 22,355 19,757 19,652 18,910 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) Europe 18,337 19,022 18,724 19,346 20,789 % of eligible (exempt > JG 11) COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Prepare and deploy ST community involvement Charter employees receiving unvested 23 24 21 22 22 Mediterranean 4,533 4,677 4,348 4,349 4,493 stock awards Japan 195 210 207 208 202 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) 3,670 3,790 3,390 3,570 3,920 Total 45,519 47,755 44,212 44,713 45,361 Number of employees rewarded Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The environment Number of nationalities in the headcount by region* Average training hours / LA10 Fair wages (%) Europe 68 74 78 76 Exempts 26.0 32.1 31.0 29.0 30.3 Percentage of employees Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Non-exempts 41.0 43.3 38.0 36.0 41.7 paid up to 105% of the legal Americas 29 26 25 25 13.36 16.65 12.20 11.95 10. 83 or conventional minimum Environmental investments / EN30 Mediterranean 18 16 17 17 Operators 94.0 91.1 78.0 70.0 70.4 wage* Total* 51.0 49.0 50.0 45.9 48.0 % of total company Asia Pacific 36 36 36 36 (*) Employees paid above 105% are not part of this scope. investments 0.40 0.06 0.50 0.85 0.21 (*) Includes training on equipment and outside training. Japan N/A N/A 4 5 Injuries/illness cost and savings (US$m) / LA7 (*) Expatriates and assignees are counted in host country. Schooling programs* (%) / LA11 Summary of net CO2 emissions (kTons) / EN16 / EN17 / EN18 / Injuries/illness cost 2.90 1.66 2.40 2.94 1.83 EN29 / 3.1 / 3.2 / 3.4 Number of nationalities in corporate staff / LA13 Exempts 2.76 4.39 5.26 1.74 1.83 Results without action 8.90 8.43 8.90 8.50 9.60 Non-exempts 4.69 6.01 7.58 0.95 0.89 Savings* 6.00 6.77 7.14 5.80 7.80 Direct emissions (scope1) 393 551 626 561 554 Different nationalities represented in the 7 7 7 6 7 Operators 2.75 1.02 7.96 2.31 2.39 (*) around 56$m savings in 10 years. Direct emissions due to PFCs corporate staff 352 519 595 527 514 (*) % of employees following ST supported external schooling programs vs total number of employees. (FE+BE) Recordable cases rate breakdown: industrial /domestic Gender breakdown by region (%) Employees survey Engagement rate / LA7 Direct emissions due to 41 32 31 31 37 boilers Male 74 74 75 75 75 Overall participation rate (%) N/A 86 86 87 N/A RC Industrial rate 0.23 0.17 0.19 0.17 0.13 Europe Direct emissions due to Female 26 26 25 25 25 RC Domestic rate 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.07 3 2 Rational Commitment Index N/A 0.20 0.20 0.18 N/A direct transportation Male 79 79 79 78 78 Americas Emotional Commitment N/A 0.40 0.39 0.38 N/A Breakdown of recordable cases by type of event, Indirect emissions Female 21 21 21 22 22 Index (purchased electricity) 876 907 903 828 815 accident or exposure (%) / LA7 (Scope2) Male 43 42 43 44 44 Discretionary Effort Index N/A 0.44 0.45 0.45 N/A Mediterranean Fall or slip 28 20 31 25 Other indirect emissions Female 56 58 57 56 56 Intent to Stay Index N/A 0.32 0.30 0.25 N/A 104 126 116 107 108 Struck by or against 37 41 26 40 (transportation*) Male 53 55 57 58 58 Asia Pacific Formal recognition Overexertion 11 9 7 11 Total emissions** 1,373 1,584 1,645 1,497 1,477 Female 47 45 43 42 42 Overall recognition budget Others 5 5 3 8 Sequestration due to the Male 76 75 76 1,644 3,305 3,101 2,782 2,321 Japan of all sites (USk$) Caught in, under or between 6 7 10 5 implementation of 215 249 277 298 221 Female 24 25 24 reforestation projects*** Number of people Contact with chemicals 6 7 13 8 38,373 36,697 48,606 33,823 39,629 Career length and voluntary turnover rate (%) / LA2 recognized* Total direct net emissions 178 302 349 263 333 Bodily reaction from slip or motion 7 11 10 3 % of accepted suggestions new hires (below 2 yrs) 44.87 45.54 52.67 52.08 72.29 53.00 54.75 65.20 59.56 50.13 (*) The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees’ transportation and which were implemented Recordable cases rate by region transportation of goods. employees from 2 to < 5 yrs 13.12 18.07 27.83 24.02 22.67 (*) Can include more than one recognition for one employee over the year. (**) Transportation emissions are integrated in the total emissions. Asia Pacific 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 (***) 2013 data have been reviewed after performing an assessment of timber volume and carbon employees from 5 to < 10 yrs 3.40 5.31 7.82 8.03 9.57 Unplanned absenteeism (%) Europe & Mediterranean 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 sequestration on about 60% of our Australian forest at age 10 (the remaining 40% will be monitored employees from 10 to < 20 yrs 1.86 2.02 1.79 1.72 3.87 next year but the sequestration has been already recalculated by taking into account the new values). Unplanned absenteeism 2.47 2.67 2.77 2.82 2.93 Americas 0.2 0.1 0 0 0 Even though the measured volumes are high for a 10 year old forest, they are lower in comparison of employees above 20 yrs 1.21 1.06 0.72 0.68 7.21 the ex-ante method developed 10 years ago to forecast the sequestration of this forest. Collective bargaining / LA4 Severity rate by region Average turnover rate (%) / LA2 Initiatives and changes resulting in a reduction in GHG Number of collective Asia Pacific 1.3 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.9 Average turnover rate 11.65 15.16 18.49 15.61 15.93 agreements signed in the year 59 38 33 45 38 Europe & Mediterranean 7.6 4.9 6.5 7.8 4.1 (saved kTons CO2 ) / EN18 / 3.3 Average turnover rate by gender, by category and by Number of people covered Americas 0.6 0 0 0 0 Related to PFC direct 21,363 24,021 31,962 34,225 68 region in 2013 / LA2 by representatives emissions reduction per IPPC 155 0 21 70 69 % of people covered Fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions in guidelines 50.08 72.34 76.00 2013 / SO8 Exempts Non-exempts Operators by representatives Saving electricity 195 0 0 70 Female Male Female Male Female Male Employees working part-time by gender (%) • Agrate (incl. Bologna, Colleoni, Lecce and Torino): Incorrect installation of electrical protections Used green electricity 41 61 67 121 against indirect contacts was noticed during an inspection by public authorities, triggering a fine Men 15.23 15.04 15.75 18.36 17.29 of € 1,200. The installations were rapidly restored. Produced electricity Americas 10.14 5.15 4.75 8.31 N/A N/A • China non-manufacturing: In November, we were fined USD14,876 due to moving our Beijing site 8 7 0 0 Women 84.77 84.96 84.25 81.64 82.71 by windfarm into new offices before receiving the safety authorization certificate. This was due to the fact that Asia Pacific 9.04 10.47 10.32 28.54 40.95 83.54 we had been unable to obtain an extension of the expiring lease contract prior to moving in. Total GHG gas emissions Europe 1.01 1.32 0.59 0.64 0.31 0.47 Working time and overtime hours reduction 398 68 88 261 Mediterranean 6.67 5.99 0.91 1.96 1.65 2.53 Employees with regular Environmental costs versus savings (US$m) / EN30 Average employee age (years) worktime less than 48 hours per weeks (%) 100 100 100 96.30 96.00 Our products Total costs 48 53 52 47 43 Average employee age 34 33 36 36 37 Average weekly overtime 1.97 3.14 3.10 3.61 1.68 Energy savings 87 219 203 169 206 (hours per employee) Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Promotion ratio female/male by category and by region Water savings 15 25 24 22 25 in 2013 (%) / LA13 Average weekly working time in selected countries (hours) Quality (baseline 100 in 2004) / PR5 Chemical savings 58 87 69 62 69 Exempts Non-exempts Operators ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 China Customer complaints 61.5 55.0 70.6 67.0* 60.6* Total saving 160 331 296 253 300 Overtime 5.00 5.03 11.37 5.71 Cycle time to process Balance (cost savings) 112 278 244 206 257 Female Male Female Male Female Male ST standard working time 65.4 71.1 59.8 65.6** 66.4** 38.50 35.00 35.00 35.00 failures analysis France The method used to calculate the savings shown in this table is the following: Americas 16 15 4 N/A N/A Overtime 0.31 0.26 0.20 0.04 Customer returns 30.8 20.0 58.9 21.7*** 20.6 1) we set a baseline using the 1994 model with the assumption that there are no installation ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 enhancements, except for chemicals for which the baseline is 2000; Asia Pacific 17 18 10 10 17 13 (*) Q4 low shipments strongly impacted our customer complaints by volume, even if the number of Italy 2) this baseline is projected each year (in relation to the quantities produced); Overtime complaints received was stable. Europe 16 14 19 14 20 13 1.15 0.95 0.72 0.15 3) each year, the actual value is compared to this projection; and (**) In 2011, our failures analysis cycle time significantly improved as a result of an efficient task force on 4) the result shows the theoretical benefits due to the installation improvements concerning the savings Japan 9 13 N/A N/A N/A N/A ST standard working time 48.00 48.00 48.00 48.00 cycle time reduction. for energy, water and the use of chemicals. Malaysia (***) The customer returns results have been mainly impacted by negotiated returns from distributors. Overtime 10.32 9.39 8.50 8.68 Total costs cover expenditure of environmental management areas (including waste and remediation) Mediterranean 12 14 23 15 11 8 and yearly net investment and equipment depreciation. ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Employee performance assessment (%) / LA12 Malta WEEE / EN27 Overtime 6.00 4.50 5.00 5.90 As a supplier of components to the electronics industry (and not manufacturers of electronic Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary % of employees 78 78 89 93 92 Morocco ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 equipment), we are not directly affected by the European Directive 2012/19/ EU Waste of Electrical sources (%) / EN3 / EN4 / 3.3 % of exempts 89 96 98 98 Overtime and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). Once the requirements are transposed into the local laws of the 2.62 1.46 1.10 1.76 EU countries where we operate, we will evaluate ST concern against the transposed specific local Breakdown of energy sources % of non-exempts 90 91 ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 requirements. North Green electricity purchased 2.63 5.79 8.56 7.38 17.64 America Career development (%) Overtime 1.51 0.60 0.85 0.05 Electricity produced by ST’s ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 1.03 1.09 1.13 0 0 Employees with a promotion Singapore windfarm 8.50 15.00 15.87 16.37 14.72 Overtime 5.88 1.53 3.84 3.16 in the year Photovoltaic and thermal Employees with a job The ST standard working time 48.00 48.00 solar electricity produced 0.01 0.01 0.09 0.10 0.10 27.37 32.95 25.02 15.47 19.74 Philippines by ST function change in the year Overtime 6.00 4.34 Electricity purchased from 22.15 23.72 23.23 22.13 17.79 nuclear (CO2 free) Electricity purchased from 64.48 61.57 59.53 63.27 56.25 fossil fuel sources Natural gas 9.70 7.81 7.46 6.96 8.01 Other fuels 0 0 0 0.17 0.20 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Consumption / absolute values / EN1 / EN3 / EN4 / EN8 / 2.1 Elimination of substances of very high concern (SVHC) Phase 2 Assessment: EICC Self-assessment questionnaire Domains of involvement (%) / 2.2 / 2.3 Total number of action plans* completed since 2008 19 completed* Young generation and education 79 75 Electricity (GWh) 1,986 2,018 2,058 2,041 2,092 Action plans completed on-time (%) for the elimination and reduction of Suppliers of materials 42 76 97 183 209 Environment 3 2 100 Water (1,000m3) 16,346 17,393 17,314 16,151 17,484 hazardous substances including Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) Suppliers of equipment/ 0 0 0 13 18 Social welfare and charity 6 6 *One substance can be subject to several action plans to be eliminated from different ST processes. facilities/IT Chemicals (tons) 12,451 17,138 17,076 17,792 19,713 Suppliers of spare-parts N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Innovation and high technology 8 8 Natural gas (GWh) 214 171 166 153 183 Deployment of ST substances specification to key Subcontractors Back-End 17 20 23 42 49 Economic development 3 1 Consumption of electricity / normalized values / EN4 / 2.1 supppliers and subcontrators (%) Subcontractors Front-End 1 3 4 8 6 ST Foundation 0 5 Baseline 100 in 1994 Response rate from key (*) The number of SAQs is not the number of suppliers/subcontractors that have filled in SAQs. One 100 100 100 100 100 Other 1 3 partners supplier or subcontractor has to fill in one company level SAQ and SAQs for all their manufacturing sites Target 46.3 44.0 41.8 39.7 37.7 that produce materials/equipment/products for ST. Consumption of electricity 71.0* 48.0 50.4 54.6 50.3 Full commitment from key Motivation for contribution (%) partners to ST substances 93.0 91.0 98.5 99.0 99.0 (*) 2009: The figures show the global consumption per unit of production for the whole year affected by specification Technical ladder* (%) Community Investment 87 85 a decrease of production due to the economic crisis. Incidents in 2013 / EN23 WW Asia Pacific Europe Charitable gift 5 10 Consumption of natural gas / normalized values / 2.1 Commercial initiative 8 5 none ST population recognised Baseline 100 in 1994 2.43 1.22 3.21 through the technical ladder Fines and non monetary sanctions in 2013 / EN28 (*) The specified path starts from job grade 14 and above which is the reference population. Geographical spread of contribution (%) Consumption of natural gas 51.6 29.4 29.7 29.8 32.0 This internal program started in Europe and its deployment is currently on going. none Local 80 39 Energy saved* (GWh) / absolute values / EN5 / 2.1 Community Involvement Inputs / SO1/ EC1/ EC8/ EC9 National 19 31 Energy saved 0 129 0 0 166 Number of community involvement activities 374 385 International 1 30 (*) Includes electricity and natural gas. Total contribution (evaluated in US$m)* 8.5 11.0 Note: We estimate to have captured 85% of our contribution. Total water discharge / EN21 Number of employees engaged in volunteering 4,515 9,943 Number of hours contributed inside company time 100,972 177,592 Community Involvement Outcomes / SO1/ EC1/ EC8/ EC9 Water discharge (1000m ) 3 12,867 14,000 13,650 12,444 13,422 The community (*) Includes cash donations and an evaluation in US$ of staff time, in-kind and management costs. Number of beneficiary organizations 826 Treated in ST waste water 75 73 74 76 78 Number of direct beneficiaries 34,495 treatment plant (%) Type of contribution breakdown (%) Treated in external waste Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 water treatment plant* (%) 43 57 55 54 58 Suppliers and subcontractors change from one year to another. The list is updated regularly which Cash donations 31 14 ST Foundation SO1/ EC1 changes the reference perimeter. Staff time volunteering 57 78 (*) Part of this water has already been treated in ST waste water treatment plant, meaning that 100% Total trainees 26,091 30,285 36,444 28,307 42,257 of water discharge is treated whether internally, externally or both of them. Suppliers' and subcontractors' environmental and health In-kind 4 3 Total trainees from beginning 81,362 111,647 148,136 176,443 218,729 Waste split (tons) / EN22 & safety performance / 8.3 Management costs 8 5 of program Total waste 33,439 40,775 38,593 37,511 36,091 Number of suppliers / subcontractors Reuse & recycled 29,164 36,113 35,387 34,032 32,975 Suppliers of materials 108 104 102 94 92 Incinerated 3,170 3,522 2,134 1,758 1,352 Suppliers of equipment 40 40 40 40 40 70 Landfill 1,105 1,140 1,072 1,721 1,764 Suppliers of spare-parts N/A 35 38 39 44 71 Waste under Basel convention / EN24 Total 148 179 180 173 176 Subcontractors Back-end 65 62 59 51 59 Hazardous waste transported (as a % of total 0.003 0 0 0 1.331 Subcontractors Front-end 10 19 22 19 19 hazardous waste) ISO 14001 certified / EMAS validated (%) Environmental burden / net values / EN16 / EN17 / EN19 / EN20 / Suppliers of materials 81.1 81.0 81.2 76.0 90.4 EN26 / 4.1 / 4.3 / 4.4 Suppliers of equipment 82.5 83.0 80.0 83.0 78.0 Emissions to air Suppliers of spare-parts N/A 54.2 47.4 59.0 61.0 Global warming* (MTCE) 358,167 413,974 429,187 408,202 402,875 Total 81.5 76.2 73.8 81.9 77.3 Ozone depletion Subcontractors Back-end 97.0 97.0 98.3 98.0 98.3 8 7 0 0 0 (Kg R11 Eq) Subcontractors Front-end 100 100 95.5 100 100 VOCs (Tons) 170 178 192 147 153 Atmospheric acidification 55,370 36,581 41,525 34,456 42,181 OHSAS validated (%) (Kg SO2 Eq) Photochemical oxidant Suppliers of materials 41.0 44.0 50.0 48.0 51.0 35,044 25,292 38,125 27,165 29,501 creation (Kg ethylene Eq) Suppliers of equipment 10.0 8.0 21.0 18.0 18.0 Air emission toxicity** Suppliers of spare-parts N/A 20.0 15.8 18.0 18.0 4,101 4,484 3,075 4,337 2,680 (Kg PH3 Eq) Total 32.6 31.3 36.2 34.3 35.3 Emissions to water*** Subcontractors Back-end 91.0 87.0 62.1 67.0 64.4 Eutrophication (Kg P+N) 305,502 396,271 378,339 330,993 326,918 Subcontractors Front-end 80.0 84.0 77.3 77.0 73.0 Aquatic oxygen demand 626,835 709,202 667,146 529,623 565,693 (COD****) Suppliers’ compliance with EICC (target number) Heavy metals to water 8,934 9,579 9,796 6,458 6,446 Suppliers of materials 108 104 102 102 92 (Kg heavy metals) Aquatic ecotoxicity Suppliers of equipment/ 6,698 5,774 4,032 4,109 4,437 104 104 87 87 86 (Kg Cu Eq) facilities/IT (*) Includes direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our manufacturing plants and indirect emissions Suppliers of spare-parts N/A 35 35 35 33 from energy consumption and transport, reported in Metrics Tons of Carbon Equivalence (MTCE). Does not include GHG emissions from controlled manufacturing sites, subcontractors and foundries. Subcontractors Back-End 39 32 32 32 59 (**) Emissions of substances are considered only if they exceed the minimum threshold of 3ppm, expressed in phosphine equivalent. For Volatile Organic Compounds, Atmospheric Acidification, Subcontractors Front-End 10 19 22 22 19 Photochemical Oxidant Creation and Air Emission Toxicity the Particulate Matter is not covered. (***) Domestic waste water is included. (****) Total Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). Phase 1 Introduction: Agreement to comply with EICC (%) Suppliers of materials 82.4 89.0 95.2 82.0 96.7 Carbon footprint of ST’s products per mode of Suppliers of equipment/ transportation (%) 41.4 50.0 99.0 93.2 96.5 facilities/IT Air <2000km 10.71 Suppliers of spare-parts N/A 71.0 94.1 86.8 93.9 Air >2000km 89.12 Subcontractors Back-End 98.5 98.0 97.0 100 100 Road 0.17 Subcontractors Front-End 90.0 95.0 95.5 100 100 Ocean 0 2012 figures are based on the EICC code of conduct V4 introduced in Q4. THE COMPANY Indicators Index External Statement issued by DNV GL – Business Assurance France Financial year ended 31 December 2013 Introduction In 2013, STMicroelectronics NV entered in an organizational phase, aimed at Det Norske Veritas Germanischer Lloyd Business Assurance France (‘DNV GL putting in relations various departments and programs at a local level within – Business Assurance’) has been commissioned by the management of Sustainable Excellence Committee. The deployment of an effective and STMicroelectronics NV (‘the Company’) to carry out a moderate assurance formalized internal control spread over all sustainability data remains however to finalize. It has to be noticed that the level of transparency of the report is The following table shows the correlation between the STMicroelectronics Sustainability Report and the ten engagement on the “2013 Sustainability Report” (‘the Report’) in its draft electronic format. good, in the way which STMicroelectronics NV clearly expressed difficulties Principles of the Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) elements and the ISO 26000 standard. STMicroelectronics NV is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation met, highlighting the complexity of performance measurement in particular and presentation of information contained in the Report. Our responsibility in for Community Involvement impacts. performing the work commissioned is solely towards the Management of Based on our review, we assessed adherence of the Report to the following GRI Indicators Global Compact Principles ISO 26000 core subjects and issues STMicroelectronics NV and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed principles, on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’, ‘Need for improvement’: on with the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption Company that the data and information provided are complete, sufficient and authentic. Materiality: we consider that the Report includes the major material aspects concerning the Company’s performance and stakeholders’ concerns. 2.1; 2.3; 2.4; 2.8; 2.9; 3.1-3.8; 3.10; STMicroelectronics NV’s stakeholders are the intended recipients of the Readers' Guide In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of 3.11; 3.13; 4.9; 4.14-4.16 assurance statement. materiality is ‘Good’. ST at a glance and Value chain 2.3; 2.5; 2.7; 2.8; 3.6 Scope of verification Completeness: we believe that, overall, the topics and indicators contained Foreword by Carlo Bozotti 1.1; 1.2; 4.9; 4.17 The scope of work agreed upon with STMicroelectronics NV to provide a in the Report cover STMicroelectronics NV material impacts sufficiently to moderate level of assurance includes the following information and entities: enable stakeholders’ assessment of the Company’s sustainability performance Sustainability Strategy 3.5; 4.8; 4.9; 4.11; 4.17 in 2013. Governance 2.3; 2.6; 2.10; 4.1-4.3; 4.7; 4.8; 4.9 6,2  Key Performance Indicators for Our People, Our Products, The Environment In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of and The Community related to the period between January 2013 and completeness is ‘Good’. Business Ethics & Compliance 4.6; 4.9; HR3; HR4; SO2; SO3; SO4 GC10 6.6.3 December 2013, as contained in the 2013 Report. Financial and Extra-Financial Performance 2.7; 2.8; EC1 Reliability: we found that the information and processes are sufficiently  Our verification was carried out from March to May 2014. As part of this collated, recorded, compiled, analysed and disclosed in a manner that allowed Our People 6.3; 6.4 engagement we visited selected sites on the basis of their contribution us to examine and assess the accuracy of the information. which represents 20% of the Group’s consolidated environmental and social In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Recruitment, Learning & Development LA2; LA10; LA11; LA12 GC6 6.4.7 indicators (a higher level of Assurance would have required a more detailed reliability is ‘Good’. Employee Engagement 4.16; 4.17 6.2.3 review): Geneva (Headquarters), Ang Mo Kio (Singapour), Kirkop (Malta), Rousset (France). Comparability: we consider that stakeholders have sufficient information Employee Safety LA7; LA8 6.3.7 that is adequately selected and compiled in order to analyse the changes in 72 Labor & Human Rights 4.8; 4.12 EC8; HR5; HR6; HR7; SO5 GC1; GC3; GC4; GC5 6.3.10; 6.4.5 Verification methodology the Company’s performance over time. 73 Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Employee Health & Well-being LA8 GC1 6.4.4; 6.4.6 the DNV ‘Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting’. The available comparability is ‘Good’. Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities LA13 GC1; GC6 6.3.7 parts of Report were evaluated against the following criteria in accordance Stakeholders’ inclusiveness: we consider that the views and concerns of with the Protocol: Materiality, Completeness, Reliability, Comparability and Our Products 6.7 Stakeholders inclusiveness. stakeholders have been taken into consideration and that dialogue was effective. Customer Satisfaction 4.16; 4.17; PR5 6.7.3; 6.7.6 As part of the verification, we have: In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Innovation Management 6.6.7 stakeholders inclusiveness is ‘Good’.  Challenged the statements and claims related to the following subjects: Our EN2; EN5; EN6; EN26; EN27; People, Our Products, The Environment and The Community statements Sustainable Technology GC1; GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.7.4; 6.7.5 Opportunities for improvement PR1; PR3 and assessed the robustness of the data management systems, information Our verification report includes observations, findings and opportunities for Conflict Minerals 4.17 HR2; HR7; PR3 GC1; GC2 6.3.5; 6.6.4 flow and controls; improvement which have been reported back to the Management of the  Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made The Environment 4.8; 4.13; EN1; EN2; EN18; EN26 6.5 available to DNV GL – Business Assurance France by the Company; STMicroelectronics NV. These do not, however, affect our conclusions on the Sustainability Report 2013. GHG Emissions from Operations EC2; EN16; EN17; EN18; SO1 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.5.5  Interviewed the Corporate Social Responsibility Team and conducted interviews with an excess of 50 company’s representatives we visited in Water Management EC2; EN8, EN10, EN21; EN25; SO1 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.4 Competence and independence of DNV GL – Business three sites and the company’s headquarter (including data owners and decision-makers from different divisions and functions) to assess Assurance France Energy Management EC2; EC6; EN3; EN4; EN5; EN7 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.4 compliance by the sites visited with Corporate procedures, processes and DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data Chemicals Management EN1; PR3 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3 guidance. Interviews with external stakeholders were not included; included in the Sustainable Report. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality in  Performed sample-based audits of the mechanisms for implementing the the work carried out and expressly disclaims any liability or co responsibility Waste Management EN2; EN22; EN24 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3 Company’s own policies, as described in the available parts of Report; for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance EC2; EN4; EN5; EN7; EN16; EN17;  Performed sample-based audits of the processes to review the methods, Statement. DNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including Transports & Logistics GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.5.5 EN29 practices and tools used in the collection, aggregation/calculation, analysis, the verification of sustainability reports. For more information, please visit our web site (www.dnvgl.fr/certification) or www.st.com. The Community 4.16; 4.17 6.6; 6.8 internal quality control and reporting of qualitative and quantitative data and information, as it is transferred, managed and stored within the Sustainability in the Supply Chain 4.8; 4.9; 4.12 EC6; HR1; HR2; PR3 GC1; GC3; GC4; GC5; GC6; GC9 6.6.6 Company. For DNV GL – Business Assurance France, Community Involvement EC1; EC8; EC9; SO1 6.8.3; 6.8.5; 6.8.6; 6.8.7; 6.8.9 Conclusions Partnerships in R&D and Education SO1 6.8.4 It is the opinion of DNV GL – Business Assurance that the 2013 Sustainable Public Affairs & Industry Networking 4.13 EC9; SO5 6.6.6 Report is an accurate and impartial representation of the Company’s sustainability-related strategies, management systems and performance. Awards 2.10 6.2 Based on the assurance work we performed on both the Key Performance 2.8; 3.9; 3.12 EC1; EC5; EC7; LA1; Indicators as well as parts of the narratives in the Company’s “2013 Marc-Antoine Horenfeld Jean-Christophe Carrau LA2; LA4; LA5; LA7; LA10; LA11; Sustainability Report”, it is our opinion that sufficient evidences have been Project Manager Reviewer Additional Indicators LA13; EN1; EN3; EN4; EN16; EN17; obtained to achieve a moderate level of Assurance, as information and data EN19; EN20; EN22; EN23; EN26; communicated and subjected to our verification were found to be reliable. Paris, June 24th, 2014 EN28; EN30; PR5 157444-2014-CSR-FRA DNV GL – BUSINESS ASSURANCE FRANCE Parc Technoland – ZI Champ Dolin – 1 allée du Lazio – 69800 Saint Priest | Tel: +33 (0)4 78 90 91 40 | Fax: +33 (0)4 78 90 52 78 | dnvgl.fr/certification Page 1 of 1 © STMicroelectronics June 2014 Printed in the U.K All rights reserved. The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered trademark of the STMicroelectronics group of companies. All other names are the property of their respective owners. For more information on ST products and solutions, visit www.st.com
