CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2013 OUR FOCUS IN 2014 AND 2015 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER STATEMENT Global warming, water scarcity and increasing pressure on We at DHI support the United Nations Global Compact’s call to natural resources due to growing populations and increasing adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies. As such, I am urbanisation are some of the urgent challenges the world is pleased to reaffirm our support of the Compact’s ten principles facing. At DHI, we believe that we can make a difference. in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and antiIt comes naturally to us to take an active part in ensuring a corruption. sustainable future for a growing world. Developing and In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe integrating sustainable and environmentally sound water the actions we are taking to continuously improve integration of management solutions for our clients is part of our DNA as well the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, as an essential part of our purpose and values. culture and daily operations. We will also share this information Our core business is to use and share our innovative and global with our stakeholders using our primary communication knowledge of water environments to develop sustainable channels to further encourage its implementation. solutions for society in order to encourage sustainable Yours sincerely, development. This is also part of our quest – to solve the world’s challenges in water environments. Jacob Høst-Madsen Chief Operating Officer 2 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) In November 2013, we joined the United Nations (UN) Global At DHI, we contribute to CSR through three focus areas: Compact and we are now in the process of aligning our  Improving the environment operations and strategies with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Last  Responsible business practice year was our anchor year. In 2014 and 2015, we will be able to  Sharing knowledge and technology assess the results of increased awareness in these areas for the first time. In addition, we abide by the UN Global Compact principles on: We utilise the UN Global Compact as a:  human rights and labour through the policies and procedures in our certified DHI Business Management  framework for conducting Corporate Social System, the DHIBus Responsibility (CSR) initiatives within DHI Group and to ensure that our business partners support the Compact’s  the environment, which is at the heart of our quest principles  anti-corruption, which is integrated into our business  basis for communication with the world around us – we integrity policy and is one of our key CSR focus areas want to convey our views on social responsibility and our work in this field  platform for dialogue with our clients and external business partners The purpose of this report is to:  explain our progress to the UN  communicate our messages, challenges and achievements to our various stakeholders, with whom we are in contact with in a variety of ways  communicate our work implementing the UN Global Compact to our employees as well others who have an interest in CSR and social responsibility 3 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT Each of our Signature Projects has ushered in considerable environmental, social and economic benefits. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2013 Our Signature Projects from 2013 provide concrete examples of out a proactive Environmental Monitoring and Management how we have helped solve the world’s toughest challenges in Plan alongside the dredging works. We predicted potential water environments. Each of these projects has ushered in impacts before they became a problem. This allowed the considerable environmental, social and economic benefits in company to optimise the dredging programme and complete their respective areas. the dredging on time and on budget with minimal impact on the environment. In the Nile River Basin, we helped ten countries share water resources. With a drainage area of 3 million km2, the Nile River is We helped Aarhus, Denmark’s second largest city, reduce their a major source of food, irrigation and energy production. More environmental and CO2 footprint. Aarhus Water – the local than 200 million people depend on the river’s water for their water supplier and storm and wastewater service provider – has livelihood. Over the years, an increasing population and ten wastewater treatment plants that receive 35 million m3 of economic growth in the region has put more pressure on the wastewater a year. Faced with the demands of a growing city, river’s limited resources. Ten of the Nile Basin’s riparian they needed to find a way to increase their wastewater countries – represented by the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) – have treatment efficiency and capacity. We worked with the agreed to cooperatively develop the river. To help the NBI foster operating staff to optimise their wastewater treatment process, equitable management of the Nile’s resources, we developed enabling Aarhus Water to reduce their environmental and CO2 the Nile Basin Decision Support System (NB DSS). With the NBI, footprint. we developed an analysis tool that provides a transparent and objective way for the NBI countries to share information, enabling water authorities to cooperatively and sustainably use In Singapore, we helped ensure sustainable protection measures the Nile’s water. for mangroves that would not negatively impact the marine environment. Tekong Island is home to the country’s largest remaining tract of mangrove forests, however coastal erosion is In Malaysia, we helped VALE Malaysia Minerals Sdn build a 1.8 putting it at risk. To protect the mangroves, Singapore’s km long deep water jetty with minimal environmental impact. National Parks Board (through the Housing Development Board) VALE is building a new iron ore distribution centre, including a implemented coastal protection and restoration works on 1.8 km long deep water jetty, in a coastal region of Malaysia. Tekong Island. To ensure that the works themselves did not This required comprehensive dredging works, which would harm the existing mangroves, we developed and implemented produce sediment plumes that could negatively affect the an Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan (EMMP). environment. Complex conditions in the area – including strong This helped Singapore preserve its largest remaining tract of current flows and very deep water – meant standard dredging mangrove forests. mitigation measures would be insufficient. As such, we carried 4 IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT OUR FOCUS IN 2014 AND 2015 In Indonesia, we helped ensure Jakarta Bay’s long-term In 2014 and 2015, we will continue our focus on improving the sustainability. In recent years, Jakarta Bay has experienced rapid environment by continuing to develop and deliver services and economic growth, leading to land-use conflicts and products that help solve water challenges related to global environmental issues. To ensure the Bay’s long-term urbanisation. This includes using water more efficiently, sustainability, the Indonesian Ministry of Environment (KLH) reducing energy consumption, helping cities adapt to climate decided to create a coastal development policy. We supported change, and increasing wastewater treatment efficiency. them by conducting a Rapid Environmental Assessment (REA) of the Bay, through the Danish International Development Agency (Danida). Our REA provided KLH with the critical information We will also offer more services and technologies to help solve required to create its coastal development policy, which helped challenges in the industrial water sector. This includes using to ensure the sustainable development of an area 28 million water more efficiently, re-using water, and developing people call home. water-free production methods. In addition, we will continue to develop advanced decision support technology for water management. We helped water authorities in New South Wales, Australia reduce the amount of water lost to evaporation and evapotranspiration. The complexity of the 1,600 km long Murrumbidgee River – combined with the need to meet critical irrigation, environmental and town water demands – often results in excess water being released and subsequently lost to the river system. To address this issue, we worked with the State Water Corporation to develop the Computer Aided River Management (CARM) system. CARM integrates models reproducing key catchment and river processes with real-time measurements for the entire Murrumbidgee River system. This enables authorities to release the right amount of water at the right time, reducing the loss of water in the system. See all our signature projects here: www.dhigroup.com/references 5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES We reaffirmed our commitment to ensuring responsible business practices throughout our organisation. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2013 In 2013, we reaffirmed our commitment to ensuring responsible To ensure the consistent application of our business integrity business practices throughout our organisation by signing on to policies, we further implemented the DHIBus (our documented and submitting our Letter of Commitment to join the UN Global management system) in ten additional DHI offices. The DHIBus Compact. As part of this, we established a Whistleblower process includes policies and procedures related to CSR. to safeguard our values and ensure compliance with our policies. Customers, partners, employees and third parties can submit an online form anonymously to notify us of suspected corruption Furthermore, we integrated the FIDIC Code of Ethics into our and other issues of concerns. In 2013, we received information business processes and practices. The FIDIC Code of Ethics about and handled one case of suspected corruption. clarifies consulting engineers’ responsibility to society and the consulting industry as well as their duty to perform services within their competencies, maintain their integrity, remain In addition to our Whistleblower process, we also established a impartial, fight corruption, and exhibit fairness to others. Sustainability webpage on our website. Accessible to everyone, this page highlights the sustainable and socially responsible work we have undertaken – past, present and future. 6 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES To enhance our internal focus on CSR issues, we will launch a new Code of Conduct. OUR FOCUS IN 2014 AND 2015 To further strengthen our commitment to engaging in As a part of the risk analysis during the bidding decision process, responsible business practices, we will launch a new Code of we will screen projects for violation of human rights and labour Conduct. It will help ensure that all of our employees live up to principles, damage to environment and corruption prior to our ethical standards for the environment and society on a daily entering into contracts and agreements. This will enhance our basis. This includes offering the best technical choices from a internal focus on CSR issues and inform our client of our CSR long-term and local-global impact perspective. principles, helping to prevent and mitigate the risks of violating human rights and labour principles, damage to environment and corruption. This new Code of Conduct will be conveyed to all employees. We will also make our responsible business practices policy a part of our New Employee Induction and our Project Manager training. In 2014 and 2015, we also plan to implement the DHIBus (our This will further ensure our continued implementation of CSR documented management system), which includes policies and best practices throughout our organisation. procedures related to CSR, in nine additional offices. We will continue to strive to exhibit CSR best practices. We will assess labour-related risks in our operations, with health and safety as Furthermore, we will integrate a requirement to recognise and prioritised focus areas. We will evaluate the risks and implement follow our Code of Conduct as a part of the qualification process actions to ensure the health and safety of all our employees. into the subcontracting process. This will help improve the process of assessing CSR impacts during the subcontractor qualification phase and convey our CSR policies to our In addition, we will develop CSR key performance indicators subcontractors. (KPIs) and goals (KPGs) as well as improve documentation of and monitor our KPIs and KPGs. This will enable us to better track the effectiveness of our CSR processes and further integrate our CSR In addition, we will extend our Whistleblower policy and make KPGs and KPIs into the Group Dashboard. By documenting and clear it that it can be used to report violations of human rights reporting our performance, top management is able to ensure and labour principles – anonymously if the person so chooses. consistent application of our corporate values regarding responsible business practices in the future. 7 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY Around the world, we share our knowledge of water environments. OUR ACTIVITIES IN 2013 Around the world, we have provided training and knowledge In addition, we invited 265 Danish high school students to sharing activities related to water environments. We conducted attend a half-day seminar on the impacts of climate change seminars and training courses for 6,795 people to help them impact on Denmark. We also offered university students around increase their knowledge of water environments using our MIKE the world access to some of our water management software by DHI and MIKE CUSTOMISED by DHI tools. (for a small handling fee), which 1,030 students took advantage of. In addition, we launched Aqua Republica – our not-for-profit serious online game – in 2013. With more than 2,000 registered Furthermore, we continued our support of the Women’s Water users, Aqua Republica utilise real world data to present Initiative (previously called the Women’s Water Fund) by participants with real-life water management scenarios. This organising a capacity building visit to Denmark for eight women helps increase awareness of integrated water resources from developing countries. The visit included a combination of management issues through hands-on experience. formal training as well as face-to-face interaction with managers in public authorities and the water industry. This programme provided the women with the skills and encouragement needed To further spread the knowledge gained by playing Aqua to advance their career opportunities in the field of water Republica, we also co-organised the UNEP-DHI Eco Challenge resources development and management. 2013 – an online gaming competition for high school students in Asia. With 410 teams participating across nine countries in Asia, the Eco Challenge enabled the students to learn more about integrated water resources management. 8 SHARING KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY By continuing to share our knowledge, we will help others further enhance their knowledge of water environments. OUR FOCUS IN 2014 AND 2015 To continue sharing our knowledge of water environment We also co-organised the South Africa Water Challenge 2014, in management, we will continue to conduct seminars and training cooperation with UNEP-DHI, the Federal Ministry of Education courses around the world in 2014 and 2015. This will help and Research (Germany), Mindset (an educational television enhance course participants’ knowledge of water environments channel), and the Water Research Commission. As part of the and improve their skills in the use of our MIKE by DHI and MIKE one-month water game, participants learned about the conflicts CUSTOMISED by DHI tools, helping them solve their unique and trade-offs that exist in a real catchment – South Africa’s water challenges. Middle Olifants – by experiencing them through meaningful play. In addition, we will continue to target youths for knowledge sharing activities. We co-organised the UNEP-DHI Eco Challenge This helped participants understand the needs and perspectives 2014 in Asia and will co-organise it again in 2015. This will of all the stakeholders involved in integrated water resources enable even more students to further learn about integrated management as well as the value that ecosystems provide. It also water resources management. In Denmark, we will prepare two enabled the Water Research Commission to understand the short films on the impacts of climate change on Denmark and participants’ thoughts on water issues in South Africa. provide them to Danish elementary schools free of charge. In China, we will also conduct a five-day course on our MIKE 21 We will also co-organise the Climate Change Summer Camp and MIKE 21C software in China for scientific research 2015 in Asia. This five-day camp will help 13and 14-year-olds institutions, design companies and universities. This will help increase their knowledge of climatology as well as participants obtain a deeper understanding of modelling environmental conservation and protection. This will encourage software tools for water management. participants to adopt sustainable lifestyle concepts and values now to encourage sustainable development in the future. 9 As our company grows, we will further advance our sustainable development and social responsibility efforts. AMBITIONS In the future, we will further advance our efforts within sustainable development and social responsibility. As our company grows, we will maintain a strong focus on continued compliance with regulations and internationally recognised principles on human and labour rights, the environment, and anti-corruption to develop as a responsible company in accordance with our quest, long-term goals and priorities. Our firm focus on environmental, social and economic issues has always been our guiding light when doing business. This is a path we will continue to follow in 2014 and beyond. 10 DHI THE EXPERT IN WATER ENVIRONMENTS DHI are the first people you should call when you have a tough challenge to solve in a water environment – be it a river, a reservoir, an ocean, a coastline, within a city or a factory. Our knowledge of water environments is second-to-none. It represents 50 years of dedicated research and real-life experience from more than 140 countries. We strive to make this knowledge globally accessible to clients and partners by channelling it through our local teams and unique software. Our world is water. So whether you need to save water, share it fairly, improve its quality, quantify its impact or manage its flow, we can help. Our knowledge, combined with our team's expertise and the power of our technology, holds the key to unlocking the right solution. © DHI picture credit © istockphoto.com, Mikkel Bache and DHI DHI OFFICES WORLDWIDE Australia Denmark (head office) New Zealand Spain Austria France Norway Sweden Brazil Germany Peru Turkey Brunei Hungary Poland United Arab Emirates Bulgaria India Romania United Kingdom Canada Indonesia Singapore USA China Italy Slovak Republic Vietnam Czech Republic Malaysia South Africa For more information visit: www.dhigroup.com
