During May 2013, something unprecedented happened in our Electronic City campus in Blue Tiger, Double Banded Crow and the Lemon Pansy migrate from Western Ghats to Bangalore. We were delighted to witness the spectacular sight of hundreds of migrating Eastern Ghats in the months of March to May over a distance of 350-400 km. After the butterflies stopping over for nearly a month at our campus to nectar and feed.They were heavy monsoons of June-September, the next generation reverse migrates back starting on their annual migration path from the Western Ghats to the Eastern Ghats, to avoid the October onwards. intensely heavy monsoon that characterizes rainfall patterns in much of the west coast of India from June to September. The mystery of why they chose our campus in a grossly urban setting like Bangalore can perhaps be explained by The butterfly is often used as a metaphor to suggest our ongoing attempt to recreate biodiversity in our dramatic transformation: from a state of earth-bound sluggishness to one of wing-bound freedom, from monochrome dullness to vibrant color, from narrow THE BUTTERFLY’'S campuses. Started in 2011, our campus biodiversity program seeks to convert our existing large facilities to biodiversity zones; based on the fundamental principles limitation to abundant possibility. The transformation from caterpillar to chrysalis to butterfly is a matter of wide popular admiration; less well known however is JOURNEY of multiple native plants in preference to few exotic species and of ecosystem resilience over a manicured cosmetic façade, our E-City project was our pilot the ability of some butterfly species to fly over very initiative.Therefore, it was a matter of gratification and of long distances. reinforcement of the above principles when these migratory butterflies chose to nest at our campus. One of the most well known instances is of the Monarch butterfly which undertakes an epic 4000 km long The path of sustainability has several parallels with the migration every year from the North-Eastern part of butterfly’s journey: on one hand it is about Canada and the U.S.A to the southern parts of the U.S.A transformation and shedding the old tired ways of seeing and Mexico. Starting in September /October, the for the new. It is also about tenacity and endurance. In its Monarch flies out to escape the harsh winters of North 2500 mile journey, the Monarch butterfly makes steady America, a journey which touches several states across progress every day, negotiating the manifold vagaries in North, Central and West U.S.A before culminating in its path.The sustainability journey is similar and progress Southern California or Mexico. After spending the winter months on Eucalyptus and happens in small and often invisible steps.We think that every such step, every movement Oyamel Fir trees, the second generation offspring take to wing on the reverse migration forward is important . Eventually the actions and thoughts of the many will add up to a path in early Spring.Why does it have do that ? Well, because larval food like milkweed that critical gestalt, a point of significant inflection.The butterfly’s journey symbolizes a spirit of the Monarch feeds on is available in plenty only in the northern parts. At 25 million commitment to its future generations in the face of severe odds. It is to this spirit that our butterflies per acre, the sight of millions of migrating Monarchs is a subject of aesthetic sustainability report this year is dedicated. rhapsody among nature lovers, conservationists and photographers. While the Monarch migration is well chronicled and researched, there are many such This is an abridged version of the full version available online at instances of Lepidoptera – butterfly and moth – migration across the world including www.wiprosustainabilityreport.com that which we were witnessing in our Bangalore campus. Danaids species like the Dark The online report is based on GRI 3.1 and is assessed at Level A by SGS Contents Letter from The Chairman 03 Section 5B Section 2 Employees and Sustainability at the Workplace 45 Report Profile and Assurance Approach 07 Section 5C l Report Profile 08 Ecological Sustainability at Wipro 55 l Materiality Determination 09 Section 5D l Note on Data Metrics in this Report 11 Customer Stewardship 67 l Wipro’s Approach to Report Assurance 12 Section 5E Section 3 Sustainability and the Responsible Investor 73 An Organizational Profile 15 l Wipro and Responsible Investing 74 l Spirit of Wipro, our foundation of values 16 l Our Engagement Model with the Investor Community 75 l Our Business Profile 16 l Our Economic Performance and Value Add to Investors 75 l Our Growth Story 17 l Wipro’s Financial Performance 76 l Awards and Accolades received during the year 2012-13 18 Section 5F l Good Governance and Management Practices 18 Ethical Supply Chain 81 l Enterprise Risk Management 19 l Supply Chain Engagement 83 l Corporate Governance 19 l Diversity of our Governance Bodies 21 Section 5G Education and Community Care 87 Section 4 l Wipro Applying Thought in Schools 89 Wipro’s Strategic Perspective 23 l Earthian Integrating Sustainability in Education 93 l Preamble: the Sustainability Mobius 24 l Mission10X Transforming Engineering Education in India 94 l Business and the Sustainability Megaforces 24 l Wipro Cares Community Care where it matters 94 l Sustainability Strategy and Governance at Wipro 28 l The Wipro Sustainability Dashboard for 2012-13 29 Section 5H Advocacy and Public Policy 99 l Aligning with Sustainability Charters and Networks 36 Section 5 Feedback and Communication 103 Wipro and its Stakeholders 39 l A Summary of our Stakeholder Engagement 41 A Sand County Almanac Aldo Leopold SILENT SPRING Rachel Carson A Brief History of Sustainability through its Classics Environmentalism has been around since Aristotle, DAVID ORR sparked off in later centuries by the Darwinians like 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 Humboldt, and Ernst Haeckel, who invented the term ecology to describe the study of organisms and their Man And Nature What Is Education For A Sand County Almanac Silent Spring relationship with their environment. Self-sufficiency and by George Perkins Marsh by David Orr by Aldo Leopold by Rachel Carson the concept of a life in tune with the natural world have consistently appeared through time, from Thoreau’s experiment at Walden Pond, to Gandhian economics which speaks of community management of precious WALDEN TRAGEDY OF THE COMMONS HENRY DAVID THOREAU natural resources. In contemporary times, the idea of GARRETT JAMES HARDIN sustainability has permeated tentatively through layers of social conscience, finding a place in economic theory and practice, inspiring people and movements, becoming the subject matter of media and THE communication, and featuring on the agendas of UNQUIET governments and companies, reflected in legislations WOODS Future of life RAMACHANDRA GUHA E O Wilson and international treaties. And yet, there is a gap. 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 Careful tracking of our ecological footprint tells us that sustainability must become an integral thread in the The Unquiet Woods Future Of Life Walden Tragedy Of The Commons by Ramachandra Guha by E O Wilson by Henry David Thoreau by Garrett James Hardin fabric of our thinking and living, the weft of our every action woven through with the warp of environmental protection. David Orr asserts that all education must be environmental, teaching students that they are not separate from nature, but an inherent piece of the Cradle THE NATURAL HISTORY OF URBANIZATION LEWIS MUMFORD pattern of life on Earth. As a special feature in this report, included are eleven excerpts that seek to inform to and document some of the landmarks along the path the Cradle sustainability movement has taken. We hope you enjoy MICHAEL BRAUNGART WILLIAM ANDREWS MCDONOUGH reading the excerpts This excerpt is from an article which carries many core ideas from Lewis Mumford's famous book ‘The City in History 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 from these books and articles. Cradle To Cradle The Natural History Of A Lecture On by Michael Braungart Urbanization Boomers & Stickers William Andrews Mcdonough by Lewis Mumford by Wendell Berry Wipro Sustainability Letter from Report 2012-13 the Chairman 003 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Diversity and the Workplace Just as biological diversity is crucial for the well-being of an ecosystem, we see diversity at Dear fellow stakeholders, the workplace as an important source of creativity and robustness in thinking. The Welcome to our sixth sustainability report for proportion of women in our workforce continues to grow steadily and stands at 30%. We the year 2012-13. The theme of this year’s are deeply committed to enhancing the global nature of workforce; today, around 9% of report is ‘The Butterfly’s Journey’. our employees are from 98 countries other than India – something that will keep increasing in the years to come. Finally, we take particular pride in the fact that close to In May 2013, we were witness to the 500 persons with disabilities are part of our workforce, an 87% increase over a two year spectacular sight of hundreds of migratory period. I can tell you that Wipro is enriched and stronger because of these deeply butterflies stopping over for nearly a month committed people. at our Electronic City campus to rest and feed. The butterflies were on their semiSocial Initiatives annual migration from the Western Ghats to Our decade long momentum in the areas of education and community care continues Eastern Ghats in India, a distance of more than to grow in different directions. Let me mention a couple of important recent initiatives in 400 kms. One doesn’t see such a sight in a this regard. large metropolis like Bangalore. Having The United States of America considers improving Science and Math education in schools never occurred before, it seemed logical as a key priority. In synch with this, we started a program nearly two years back that is for us to conclude that this was the focused on inner-city schools serving disadvantaged communities in Boston and New result of converting our campus into a biodiversity zone, the first of such projects in our York.The program focuses on developing the capacities of teachers in Science and Math, continuing program on campus biodiversity. as also to help them become change agents in their school districts.We have well defined The butterfly is a metaphor for transformation and tenacity, hope and resilience…. it is plans to expand this program rapidly in the years to come. perhaps not coincidental that these are also key attributes of the journey of sustainability. As a global company, we think that it is important to consciously and deliberately engage Let me summarize a few salient highlights of our own journey. with communities wherever we have significant presence. For us, the definition of CSR cannot be restricted to the work that we do in India alone. Our Ecological Footprint Over the five year period 2008 09 to 2012 13, our investments in green buildings and The other important initiative that has gained wide traction is earthian, our program on energy efficiency have yielded savings of 30 million units of electricity. This combined sustainability education. We have had nearly 1500 schools and colleges from all parts of with our consistent focus on renewable energy has resulted in a reduction of nearly India participate in this program since its inception in 2011. In future, our focus will be to 107,000 tons of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a cumulated basis. make it as inclusive as possible in outreach and to make the process of participation itself enriching and educative. During this five year period, we not only saved nearly 405 million liters of freshwater through multiple efficiency and conservation measures but also recharged around Disclosures 250 million liters of water to the ground. Our efforts on water do not stop with this; we Disclosures like this report are a critical element in an organization’s sustainability spend significant time and resources on issues of water responsibility and advocacy by journey. If done with attention to detail and honesty of purpose, they can serve as a working closely with our partners from civil society, academia and government. valuable platform of objective self-assessment and of continuous improvement. Wipro Sustainability Letter from Report 2012-13 the Chairman 004 Our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fourth time in succession and the Number 1 ranking in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (India) provide an affirmation of the fact that good quality disclosures have great value for investors, customers, suppliers as well as for the public at large. Let me end this letter by taking a step back. Like many who are committed to sustainability, two questions continue to concern us : ‘Are we doing enough’? and ‘Is the world doing enough’? Indications from credible sources seem to indicate that the world at large seems to be moving slowly on issues like climate change, biodiversity loss and poverty alleviation. However, I derive hope from the butterfly’s journey, the theme with which I started. Butterflies migrate long distances to escape difficult conditions so that the next generation continues.The Monarch butterfly flies 2500 miles from Canada to Mexico and the southern part of the U.S.A, negotiating numerous obstacles and vagaries in its path. The sustainability journey is similar: progress often happens in small steps, hidden from public view.We think that every such step, every movement forward is important. I am optimistic that eventually the actions and thoughts of the many will lead to a tipping point and then onwards to a genuinely sustainable society. With Best Wishes, Azim H Premji The Prophet of Conservation, George Perkins Marsh, prophesied environmental catastrophes in mid 19th century! He was a sophisticated thinker, author, diplomat, lawyer, linguist, scholar of physics, military science, engraver and owner of one of the finest collections of Scandinavian literature. Marsh put forth the then radical thought that humans when armed with technology and devoted to economic growth were a disturbing agent . Marsh warned that with time and increased intensity, environmental destruction might extinguish the human race itself. Man and Nature play a vital role in environmental history, each is interdependent on the other for survival, with the balance tipping more in favour of Nature than Man. Marsh's magnum opus ‘Man and Nature' is priceless, because over a century and a half since it was first published, its relevance is still unquestionable. It still offers a brilliant role model for modernists to emulate. His Man and Nature still teaches the fundamentals of good environment. 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 Excerpt from the book But, as we have seen, man has reacted upon organized and inorganic nature, and These changes for evil and for good have not been caused by great natural thereby modified, if not determined, the material structure of his earthly home. revolutions of the globe, nor are they by any means attributable wholly to the The measure of that reaction manifestly constitutes a very important element in moral and physical action or inaction of the peoples, or, in all cases, even of the the appreciation of the relations between mind and matter, as well as in the races that now inhabit these respective regions. They are products of a discussion of many purely physical problems... But though the subject has been complication of conflicting or coincident forces, acting through a long series of incidentally touched upon by many geographers, and treated with much fullness of generations; here, improvidence, wastefulness, and wanton violence; there, detail in regard to certain limited fields of human effort, and to certain specific effects foresight and wisely guided persevering industry. of human action, it has not, as a whole, so far as I know, been made matter of special observation, or historical. The human operations mentioned in the last few paragraphs, therefore, do act in the ways ascribed to them, though our limited faculties are at presents, ...the physical revolutions thus wrought by man have not all been destructive to perhaps forever, incapable of weighing their immediate, still more their ultimate human interests. Soils to which no nutritious vegetable was indigenous, countries consequences. But our inability to assign definite values to these causes of the which once brought forth but the fewest products suited disturbance of natural arrangements is not a reason for ignoring the existence of for the sustenance and comfort of man – while the such causes in any general view of the relations between man and nature, and severity of their climates created and stimulated we are never justified in assuming a force to be insignificant because its measure the greatest number and the most imperious is unknown, or even because no physical effect can now be traced to it as its origin. urgency of physical wants – surfaces the most The collection of phenomena must precede the analysis of them, and every new rugged and intractable, and least blessed with fact, illustrative of the action and, reaction between humanity and the material natural facilities of communication, have world around it, is another step toward the determination of the great been made in modern times to yield question, whether man is of nature or above her. and distribute all that supplies the material necessities, all that contributes to the sensuous enjoyments and conveniences of civilized life. The Scythia, the Thule, the Britain, the Germany, and the Gaul which the Roman writers describe in such forbidding terms, From MAN AND NATURE: OR, PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY AS MODIFIED BY have been brought almost to rival the native luxuriance HUMAN ACTION by George Perkins Marsh, edited by David Lowenthal, published by and easily won plenty of Southern Italy; and, while the fountains of oil and wine that Harvard University Press. Copyright © 1965 by the President and Fellows of Harvard refreshed old Greece and Syria and Northern Africa have almost ceased to flow, College. Used by permission. All rights reserved. and the soils of those fair lands are turned to thirsty and inhospitable deserts, the hyperborean regions of Europe have conquered, or rather compensated, the rigors of climate, and attained to a material wealth and variety of product that, with all their natural advantages, the granaries of the ancient world can hardly be said to have enjoyed. SECTION 02 REPORT PROFILE AND ASSURANCE APPROACH 08 REPORT PROFILE 09 MATERIALITY DETERMINATION 11 NOTE ON DATA METRICS IN THIS REPORT 12 WIPRO’S APPROACH TO REPORT ASSURANCE This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Report Profile and Report 2012-13 Assurance Approach 008 In this section, we provide an overview of the profile of our sustainability report for Table showing the scope and coverage of the report 2012-13; the profile provides the anchoring context in terms of coverage and scope for the report itself. A key topic discussed in this section is Wipro’s Materiality approach IT Businesses that helps determine the priorities of our sustainability programme and the corresponding disclosures. IT Services IT Products Software Services BPO Services (WI) In the latter part of this section, we articulate our approach to report assurance, a key determinant of the quality and transparency of any report. Primary l Consulting l Business Process Enterprise l offerings l Package Outsourcing Products Report Profile Implementation Personal l The profile of our sustainability report is covered under the following heads l Application Computers (PCs) Development & Network l Profile Brief Description Maintenance Products Time Period Provides information on the reporting period and frequency of l Testing Services publishing the report. l Technology Scope and Boundary Provides the scope of the report in terms of the business Infrastructure divisions that are covered and the sustainability topics covered in l Product Engineering each section. Geography l Americas l India India l Content In this sub-section, a framework is articulated for determining the presence l Europe l Americas relative materiality of different sustainability areas for Wipro – l India l Europe this largely determines the depth of coverage of these topics in l Japan the report. l Middle East Data methodologies Provides a contextual framework of the underlying processes, l Asia Pacific systems and empirical assumptions for the data and metrics published in this report. Scope of l Financial performance l Financial performance The IT l products reporting indicators for all indicators for all division serves Reporting Period geographies geographies only the India The reporting period for this sustainability report is the fiscal year April 1, 2012 to March l Environmental l Environmental market ; 31, 2013, referred to hereafter in short as ’12-13 performance for India performance for India therefore Date of the most recent previous report: Our most recent sustainability report was (only energy data (only energy data wherever the for the fiscal year 2011-12, released in March 2013. reported for overseas reported for overseas report contains Reporting cycle: Our sustainability report is published on an annual basis. locations) locations) specific l Employee metrics for l Employee metrics for reference to This report’s scope, content and boundary: The process for defining the scope of all geographies all geographies data on IT this report is based broadly on the guidelines provided by the GRI framework (G3.1 l Social Programmes l Social Programmes products, it is guidelines).The content of the report is based on the following guiding principles. cover primarily India cover primarily India for the Indian l Other qualitative l Other qualitative geography Scope and Boundary: Wipro Ltd. is a diversified conglomerate with a strong presence reporting covers all reporting covers all in the IT Services, Consumer Products and Infrastructure Engineering markets. This geographies ( unless geographies ( unless report is primarily for Wipro’s IT businesses. Effective March 31, 2013, the non-IT business otherwise specified) otherwise specified) is demerged into a separate unlisted entity ‘Wipro Enterprises Limited’. Wipro Sustainability Report Profile and Report 2012-13 Assurance Approach 009 The Content of this Report l Employee Perception Surveys indicate the key drivers that affect engagement, This is our 6th sustainability report and like our previous reports, we continue to adopt as well as the relative importance of these to employees, based on the the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is engagement scores. such a crucial cornerstone of the AA1000 and the GRI frameworks, we believe that the l Analysis of suggestions received via the Employee Advocacy Group forum. stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention on key material aspects for l Exit interview feedback. each of the stakeholders. In doing so, we are cognizant of other sustainability dimensions that may cut across stakeholders or are context specific. We have tried to ensure that l Analysis of concerns received and addressed by the Ombuds process. these are covered in the ‘Sustainability Strategy’ section. l Types of concerns discussed with ‘Mitr’ (counselling) volunteers. l Key aspects studied in (external) sustainability assessments. Materiality Determination Customers Sustainability reporting cannot happen in a vacuum and should be a faithful reflection of Customer Satisfaction is evaluated at various frequencies –annually for all customers; an organization’s values, vision, plans and progress on the different dimensions of in addition quarterly for key/focus accounts, at the end of closure of a project and at sustainability aspects.Therefore, determining the most material issues to include in this key milestones etc. Most of these are tool administered and the annual and quarterly report really stems from the sustainability issues that are the most material to Wipro, CSAT’s are third party administered. Service Delivery and Product Quality is a the IT industry and regions where we operate from. key aspect which directly impacts customer retention and business growth. Our materiality determination framework is driven by what issues hold more importance For all employees, working across different customer projects, customer satisfaction for our stakeholders.Our seven sustainability stakeholders are: is a key objective. i. Employees B. Risk Assessment Studies ii. Current and Future Generations Supply chain iii. Customers In association with two UK based organisations – Trucost and Fronesys, we completed iv. Investors a preliminary environmental and social risk profiling of our IT services and IT products v. Suppliers divisions.The ‘Ethical Supply Chain’ section in this report contains more details of the vi. Community same.We also have commissioned two studies on supply chain maturity in our waste vii. Government management programme, which have led to supply chain being recognised as a key The identification and relative prioritization of material issues is based on a combination engagement area in the sustainability journey. The services business, unlike of the following three factors; further, it is important to recognize that these issues and manufacturing, does not rely on deep and complex supply chain networks and hence their relative importance are not static and are likely to change with time. the environmental footprint of our supply chain is not material. The people supply chain comprises of knowledge workers who are empowered and have various A. Direct Feedback from the Stakeholder engagement avenues for feedback and redress, hence aspects like Human Rights and Employees Labour Practices are again not material. The employee stakeholder engagement and materiality determination scope extends However the same factors are important for our operations and support service to all categories of employees i.e. permanent, retainer and contract employees. supply chain. Hence we have rated this as being of more than medium importance to People aspects covered in client assessments are also incorporated in this. both Wipro and stakeholders and is hence placed in the 1st Quadrant. Stakeholder interests are determined by a collective analysis of feedback received via: Wipro Sustainability Report Profile and Report 2012-13 Assurance Approach 010 Natural Resources E. Informed Dialog and Discussion between Wipro leaders and employees in From a study we conducted in the proximate areas of two of our large campus areas meetings, open houses, blogs etc located in water stressed areas, we recognize the central issue of water sustainability A detailed delineation of the primary sustainability issues for each of the above for Wipro as well as the community around our campuses. stakeholders is available in Section 5 of the report. C. Disclosure Frameworks The distilled outcomes of the above processes are represented in the two matrices below Frameworks: Investor backed disclosure frameworks like Dow Jones Sustainability – one for Social and Human Rights and the other for Ecological & Economic factors.The (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CEP) and Oekom provide useful templates for materiality of a particular sustainability dimension is based on the combination of two self-assessment.All these frameworks publish rating/assessment score card across key criteria – The Stakeholders’ interest in the issue and its Relevance / Priority to dimensions and some like OeKom undertake one-on-one dialogues with responding Wipro’s IT Business. companies and provide detailed commentary on the assessment. The 19 sustainability dimensions–are really an aggregate of more granular parameters and D. Indirect Inference from public sources of information e.g. expert NGO and think factors that are part of the GRI framework.The annexure at the end of this chapter details tank reports out the correlation between each of the19 dimensions and multiple GRI indicators Materiality – Ecological /Economic Goals Materiality – Social / Human Rights High Economic Product/Service High Climate Relative Relevance to Wipro Quality People Development Climate Resource Efficiency Relative Relevance to Wipro Change Community Pollution Engagement Diversity Voice of Biodiversity Public Policy Stakeholder Safety & Health Medium Medium Economic Supply Chain Disclosures Public Benefit Human Rights/ Freedom of Labour Practices Association Anti-Corruption Low Medium High Low Medium High Stakeholders' Interest Stakeholders' Interest Wipro Sustainability Report Profile and Report 2012-13 Assurance Approach 011 Matrix Position in 2010-11 Sustainability (Relevance to Wipro, Matrix Position Remarks Dimension Relevance to Stakeholders) in 2012-13 Engaged with proximate community continues to be of high relevance to Wipro. In the past few years, we have started dialogues with various community stakeholders – like resident associations, industry associations and networks – and look forward on various Community aspects like water, waste management and mobility. Participating in dialogues as equal Engagement H–H H–M stakeholders with long term and sustained impact are key aspects of our engagement. On a relative prioritization of other social dimensions, we have slightly altered the position of materiality of this aspect across our stakeholders from ‘High’ to ‘Medium’ H–H Aligned to and part of Work Benefits “People Development” As detailed in Section 5F, our supply chain includes hospitality, facility management and support staff largely drawn from skilled and unskilled labour. We have recognised the relatively lower maturity of compliance on sustainability aspects, especially human rights and labour practices in this category.This is of increasing importance to our global Supply Chain M–M M–H customers who rightly want to ensure compliance on social aspects across their value chain – evident in requests for information and assessments focusing on these areas. Hence we have attached a higher importance for our stakeholders in the materiality assessment. The 10 most material issues for this year remain the same as enumerated in the last These 10 sustainability dimensions – and the balance eight as well – are covered in detail report – these are those in the top-right quadrant of the two matrices and reflect high in the rest of this report where we articulate Wipro’s vision, goals and performance relevance for both Wipro and its stakeholders on these. i. Product and Service Stewardship A note on the data metrics in this report: ii. People Development Methodologies, Protocols and Systems iii. Employee Health and Safety This report contains several data metrics and numerical indicators – these are placed iv. Economic Climate against the larger context of the relevant articulation of different sustainability issues. v. Voice of the Stakeholder These metrics and numbers are: vi. Climate Change l Either derived from IT systems or manually calculated ( largely in MS-Excel ) vii. Resource Efficiency l Either based on standard protocols or on organization-specific rules viii. Pollution l Sometimes based on assumptions and rules of thumb ix. Diversity x. Community Engagement Wipro Sustainability Report Profile and Report 2012-13 Assurance Approach 012 Further, it is important to take note of the following points in the above context HR systems, we have been making steady progress in the automation of these i. Wipro maintains a sophisticated infrastructure of internal IT applications – based on systems.The recording of all key EHS parameters in Wipro-owned campuses is done SAP R/3 and satellite systems where most of the enterprise data and information are in a central IT system; we evaluate platform based tools for GHG analysis and it captured, collated and analysed. These systems cover financial, HR, sales, delivery and continues to be a priority action area for us. procurement processes. Wipro’s approach to report assurance ii. Our financial systems comply with Section 404 of the Sarbannes-Oxley framework. Our approach to report assurance right from our first year of reporting has been to This implies a high degree of rigor and a robust system of checks and balances that subject our report to the highest standards of independent, third-party scrutiny – this, we ensure integrity of financial data believe, will aid our objective of continuous learning and incorporating improvements into Wipro’s sustainability programme. iii. While our Environmental IT systems are not of the same maturity as our financial and Our Report Assessment and GRI Application Level We have assessed our report at application A level as per GRI Application matrix below. This report has been independently verified and assured by SGS and the assurance engagement is for Type 2 and Moderate level as set out in the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. The independent assurance is presented in Sec 6.0 of this report. REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for OUTPUT 1.1 Level C plus: G3 Profile 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 Same as requirement STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosures for Level B REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 OUTPUT G3 Management Management Approach Management Approach Approach Not Required Disclosures for each disclosed for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category Respond on each core G3 and Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Sector Supplement indicator with G3 Performance OUTPUT 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, due regard to the materiality Indicators & at least one each of: Economic, Principal by either: including at least one from Sector Supplement each of: Social, Economic Environment, Human Rights, Labor, a) Reporting on the indicator or Performance Indicators and Environment Society, Product Responsibility. b) Explaining the reason for its omission Wipro Sustainability Report Profile and Report 2012-13 Assurance Approach 013 Annexure Correlation between materiality dimension and GRI indicators Materiality Dimension Corresponding GRI Indicators Human Rights LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 Workplace Benefits LA1, LA3, EC3 Safety and Health LA6, LA7. LA8, LA9 People Development LA10, LA11, LA12, HR3 Anti-Corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 Economic Disclosures EC1, EN30, EC4, EC9, SO6 Public Benefit EC6, EC7,SO1,SO5 Public Policy EC 7, EN28,EC5, EC8,PR2,PR4,PR6,PR7,PR8, PR9,S07,SO8 Voice of the Stakeholder LA4, LA2 Product / Service Stewardship PR1, PR3, PR5, PR8 Diversity LA13, LA14, EC7 Resource Efficiency EN1-10, EN26-27 Pollution EN19-26, EN29 Climate Change EC2, EN16-18, EN29 Biodiversity EN11-15 Freedom of Association LA4, HR5 Community Engagement SO1 A well-respected environmentalist, David W. Orr is at the vanguard of environmental education and environmental design. No stranger to awards, among his many successes, Orr was the recipient of the Bioneers Award in 2002 and the National Conservation Achievement Award by the National Wildlife Federation in 1993. We are accustomed to thinking of learning as a good in and of itself. But as the noted environmental educator David Orr reminds us, our education up until now has in some ways created monsters out of us. He opines that the principles and methods of our education system do not allow for growth of free thinkers; but instead churn out people who can do no better than learn by rote. This essay is adapted from his commencement address to the graduating class of 1990 at Arkansas College. Excerpt from the book If today is a typical day on planet Earth, we will lose 116 square miles of rainforest, or about an acre a second. We will lose another 72 square miles to encroaching deserts, the result of human mismanagement and overpopulation. We will lose 40 to 250 species, but no one knows the actual number. Today the human population will increase by 250,000. And today we will add 2,700 tons of chlorofluorocarbons and 15 million tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Tonight the Earth will be a little hotter, its waters more acidic, and the fabric of life more threadbare. The truth is that many things on which our future health and prosperity depend are in dire jeopardy: climate stability, the resilience and productivity of natural DAVID ORR systems, the beauty of the natural world, and biological diversity. Process is important for learning. Courses taught as lecture courses tend to induce passivity. Indoor classes create the illusion that learning only occurs inside four walls, isolated from what students call, without apparent irony, the “real” world. Dissecting frogs in biology classes teaches lessons about nature 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 that no one in polite company would profess. Campus architecture is crystallized pedagogy that often reinforces passivity, monologue, domination, and artificiality. My point is simply that students are being taught in various and subtle ways beyond the overt content of courses. SECTION 03 AN ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 16 SPIRIT OF WIPRO, OUR FOUNDATION OF VALUES 16 OUR BUSINESS PROFILE 17 OUR GROWTH STORY 18 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR 2012-13 18 GOOD GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 19 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 DIVERSITY OF OUR GOVERNANCE BODIES This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability An organizational Report 2012-13 profile 016 An Organizational Profile In this section, we provide an overview of Wipro, an organization that provides an overarching context to the sustainability disclosures that follow. Wipro is based on a strong foundation of values that incorporate humane views on 'Good Citizenship', which stands for: l Business with integrity l Ecological sustainability l Social and community initiatives The initiatives we undertake as a responsible corporation cover Ecology, Education and Sustainability. A humane approach has helped us connect with the public and as we move forward with these initiatives, our partnerships grow with the communities at large. Spirit of Wipro, our foundation of values Values define character, whether that of an individual, an institution or a business organization.At the core of Wipro is the “Spirit of Wipro”.This encapsulates the values which are the guiding principles for the culture at Wipro. The Spirit is rooted in current reality, but it also represents what we aspire to be, hence making it future ready. It binds us together and inspires us to achieve excellence in whatever we do. In the pages that follow, we provide a summary overview of each of these elements of technology for delivering superior business results to our clients.We have a workforce of Wipro’s business profile. over 140,000, serving over 950 clients, including a number of Fortune 500 and Global 500 The information is also available in great detail in our website www.wipro.com as well as corporations across 57 countries. in our Annual Repor t 2012-13, which can be downloaded from We began our business as a vegetable oil manufacturer in 1945 at Amalner, a small town in http://www.wipro.com/annualreport/2012-13. Western India and thereafter, expanded into product manufacturing for soaps and other Our Business Profile consumer care products. During the early 1980s, we entered the Indian IT industry by Wipro Limited (NYSE: WIT; NSE: WIPRO) is a global leader in providing IT Services, manufacturing and selling mini computers.We began selling personal computers in India in Outsourced R&D, Infrastructure Services, Business Process Services and Business 1985.In the 1990s, we leveraged our hardware R&D design and software development Consulting. With a track record of over 25 years, Wipro is the first to perfect a unique expertise and began offering software services to global clients. We are one of the quality methodology, the Wipro Way – a combination of Six Sigma, Lean Manufacturing, pioneers of the offshore development centre (ODC) model that propelled the growth of Kaizen and CMM practices – to provide unmatched business value and predictability to the Indian IT Services business to a global scale. our clients. Our industry aligned customer facing business model gives us a deep Effective March 31, 2013, we demerged the diversified business to create an organization understanding of our customers’ needs to build domain specific solutions, while our 55+ focused purely on Information Technology. dedicated emerging technologies ’Centres of Excellence‘ enables us to harness the latest Wipro Sustainability An organizational Report 2012-13 profile 017 Our Global Presence & Revenue Breakup IT Services Global Delivery Centers, BPO and Sales Offices Industry Verticals 29.0% Europe Banking Retail, Manufacturing Healthcare, Energy Global Media Financial Consumer & Hi-tech Life Science Natural & Services Packaged & Services Resources Telecom & Insurance Goods Utilities and Transportation Engineering & & Government Construction Business Application Services 12.5% Asia Pacific & Global Infrastructure Services Other Business Consulting Service Lines Emerging Markets 8.8% Product Engineering Solutions 49.7% India & ME Advanced Technologies Americas Business Process Outsourcing Analytics & Information Management BPO Services Customer Technical Finance and Human Procurement Order Knowledge Services Support Accounts Resource Outsourcing Management Process Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing Outsourcing IT Products Enterprise Desktops, Network Services Laptops Technology Products Wipro Sustainability An organizational Report 2012-13 profile 018 Financial Highlights Further details of Wipro’s financial performance for 2012-13 can be found in our Annual Report (AR) 2012-13 at http://www.wipro.com/annualreport/2012-13/ Key Organizational Metrics 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13* Awards and Accolades received during the year 2012-13 Sales (Rs. Billion) 310.5 372.0 374.3 Sustainability l Selected as Dow Jones Sustainability Index World member for the 4th time in a row. PAT (Rs. Billion) 53.0 55.7 61.4 Also selected as DJSI Emerging Markets Index member. Total Assets (Rs. Billion) 371.4 436.0 439.73 l Ranked #1 in 2012 Indian ranking of Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for Number of Shareholders 220,238 227,158 213,603 the 3rd time in a row. Number of Employees 130,145 138,164 134,541** l Ranked #2 in the Global 500 listing of Newsweek's Green Company Rankings 2012. (Total for IT and non-IT) l Ranked #1 gadget maker in Greenpeace's latest green guide to electronics 2012. l Cited as a Leader in Sustainable Technology Services by Independent Analyst Firm. Geographical breakup of revenue l Rated as Prime B+ by Oekom, leading European Sustainability rater: Wipro ranked India 22% 21% 13% Global No#1 for the IT Services sector. Americas 41% 40% 46% l Featured in the Greenpeace Cool IT Leaderboard rankings for the third consecutive Europe 22% 23% 26% year. Ranked 5th in 2013. ROW (Rest Of World) 15% 16% 15% l Wipro Ltd. earned “Sustainable Plus”, the world's first Corporate Sustainability Label by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Note: l Wipro Ltd. has been selected for inclusion in the new UN Global Compact 100 * Effective March 31, 2013, Wipro Group completed the demerger of its consumer care stock index. and lighting, infrastructure engineering and other non-IT business segments. Consequent Good Governance and Management Practices to the demerger, the financial position of Wipro Limited as at March 31, 2013 includes only the balances of the continuing IT business and are therefore strictly not comparable with An organization’s license to operate in the long run is dependent on the soundness of its the financial position of the previous year. Corresponding figures for previous year governance and management practices. The visual below, showing the organizational presented have been regrouped, where necessary, to conform to the current year architecture of Wipro illustrates this point – most of the boxes reflect a long-term presentation and classification. orientation that a company needs to assiduously build and ingrain into its DNA. ** Figures are only for core employees in IT business. Does not include partner Business strategic planning at Wipro takes key inputs from a variety of stakeholders with employees, retainers and support service workforce. respect to changes, current and foreseen in the socio-economic climate and/or technology landscape. These create various risks and opportunities for a business entity. The purpose of enterprise risk management in an organization is to manage, mitigate and optimize the risk for compliance and assurance to various stakeholders. Hence, the need for an integrated approach to governance mechanisms, risk management and compliance. In the following sections, we articulate our approach to these interconnected elements, namely – Enterprise Risk Management Corporate Governance and the Ombuds Process. Wipro Sustainability An organizational Report 2012-13 profile 019 Corporate Governance Governance and Management While good management creates value for the business, good governance preserves this Architecture at Wipro value.The primary purpose of good corporate governance is to protect the interests of all People è Continuous Empowered Leadership Diversity & Inclusivity the stakeholders of the company – by institutionalizing a strong system of checks and balances and by promoting transparency in the company’s disclosures. Policies è People Environment Security Procurement Processes è Talent Supply Global Wividus Robust Checks & Balances Key elements of Good Corporate Governance Governance Practices Sustainability Ø Enterprise Risk Management Ø Innovation Ø Resource & Cost Efficiency Ø COBC Ø Quality Ø Ecological Footprint Reduction Code of Business Board Committees Conduct and Ethics Boards Board Diversity Ø Ombuds-process Ø Customer Centricity Ø Education and Community Code of Conduct for Governance Assessment of Board Ø Board Governance Ø Knowledge Management Ø Transparent Disclosures Principal Finance effectiveness Ø Internal Audits Spirit of Wipro Lead Independent Strategic Planning è Operational Planning è Regular Reviews Director(s) by Board and CEC Codes of Corporate Shareholder Conduct Governance Governance Ombuds Process for Annual General Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Meeting (AGM) both, employees and Wipro’s ERM journey started more than five years back in 2005 and has evolved rapidly in non-employees Ombuds Checks and Shareholders Online portal for Process Balances Satisfaction Survey maturity and scope. registering and Quality and frequency tracking complaints of communication Wipro’s Enterprise Risk Management office is at the centre of our ERM program which it with investors/analysts Compliance Oversight Web based query drives in an integrated manner with all key business stakeholders. The charter of the ERM Prevention of insider trading redress system SOX Compliance program is to enable and support business growth through risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance to all stakeholders including We have a long legacy of pioneering and maintaining good governance practices – as the Customers, Shareholders and Employees by way of: visual above shows, while we had instituted the practice of an independent board of A. Assessing and mitigating risks within key business & operational processes through an inclusive approach B. Nurturing and building the culture of risk management & compliance across the organization C. Stress testing D. Though Leadership and Benchmarking For more details, please refer to the 2012-13 Annual Report, Page 38 and 39. Wipro Sustainability An organizational Report 2012-13 profile 020 Code of Ethics for principal finance officers l Anyone can report a concern to the Ombuds person online at Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) l www.wiproombuds.com The NYSE l Corporate Governance report for 2009, 2010,2011, 2012 The Ombuds Process statistics for 2012-13 and earlier years are provided below.The past and 2013. couple of years have seen the launch of a multilingual 24X7 hotline, a revamped website The l charters of the three board committees on ‘Audit/Risk and and wider communication on possible channels with all stakeholders. In addition, sexual Compliance’,‘Compensation’ and ‘Board Governance/ Nomination’ harassment cases, reported separately in earlier years, have been included under the Wipro’s Ombuds Process l Ombuds from 11-12 onwards. In line with the trend of the previous two years, nearly half of the employee complaints pertained to ‘workplace issues’ and more than a third are Lead l Independent Director: Our CG guidelines require at least 50% of the resolved through process/policy changes. board to be independent directors, of which one member is to be designated as the ‘Lead Independent Director’ – his/her primary role is to coordinate the responsibilities and activities of the other independent directors. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: l Wipro‘s Code of Business Conduct & Ethics (COBCE) is a formal articulation of our approach and position on multiple dimensions of business ethics and integrity. The COBCE along with our Environment and Health & Safety policies provide policy shelter on a wide range of issues of ethics, labour and human rights. The COBCE is socialized at multiple points of an employee’s lifecycle – it is first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and subsequently, every employee has to take an online test annually to assert his familiarity with the tenets of the COBCE. We have a zero tolerance policy for non-compliance with the COBCE, especially on non-negotiable factors – e.g. child labour, corruption etc. The Ombuds l Process: Having a robust whistle-blower policy that employees and other stakeholders can use without fear or apprehension is a sine non qua for a transparent and ethical company.Wipro’s Ombuds Process is designed to be this and more. It allows and encourages any affected stakeholder to report breaches of the COBCE and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombuds person. In Wipro, our Chief Risk Officer is also the Chief Ombuds person who works with designated Ombuds person in each BU. The process ensures confidential and anonymous submissions regarding (i) questionable accounting or auditing matters, the conduct of which results in a violation of law by Wipro or (ii) substantial mismanagement of company resources (iii) Any instance of sexual harassment or any other form of discrimination (iv) Any violation of human rights as articulated in the COBCE and as per the principles of the U.N. Global Compact. Wipro Sustainability An organizational Report 2012-13 profile 021 Breakup of complaints received through the Ombuds Process Wipro Ltd Diversity of our Governance Bodies Types of Complaint 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Our topmost governance bodies comprise of Board of Directors and Corporate HR / People Process Violation 42% 46% 40% Executive Council (CEC). We value the diversity of our governance bodies as it provides different perspectives on various issues on account of their varied backgrounds and COBCE / Security Policy Violation 6% 7% 18% experience in managing businesses across a spectrum of industries. Sexual Harassment 9% 11% 8% The table below provides the slices of the diversity of the above governing bodies. Fraud / Financial Impropriety 9% 7% 3% Tenure in Wipro Board Aggressive / Hostile / Biased Behaviour 21% 20% 20% Duration 0-5 yrs 5-10 yrs >10 years Total Others 15% 9% 11% No. of Directors 5 3 5 13 TOTAL 100% 100% 100% Total Number of Complaints 795 728 453 Experience Diversity of the Board Action Type 2012 13 2011 12 2010 -11 Separation 10% 9% 9% Category No. of Directors Warning Letter 11% 8% 5% Former CEOs FMCG 2 Counseling 25% 17% 24% Former CEOs Technology 3 Process/Policy Change 5% 42% 31% Former CEOs Financial Services 1 (Remediation of Process deficiency) Legal 1 Minor Issue/Clarifications/Closed 21% 12% 23% Academia & Consultant 2 (Benefits Granted) Government, Diplomat 1 Others 27% 12% 8% Executive Management 3 TOTAL 100% 100% 100% TOTAL 13 Breakup of Action taken against complaints Sexual Harassment Action Type 2012-13 2011-12 Experience Diversity of Wipro’s Corporate Executive Council (CEC) Separation 27% 35% Experience in Wipro Warning Letter 27% 26% Experience >20 years 10-20 years 0-10 years Total Counseling 22% 28% Others 24% 12% No. of Members 4 2 0 6 TOTAL 100% 100% A Sand County Almanac Aldo Leopold was a pioneer of wilderness conservation and is most known for his book ‘A Sand County Almanac’ (1949). A professor, Aldo Leopold was also an American author, scientist, ecologist, forester, and environmentalist. He had a profound impact Aldo Leopold on the environmental movement, and was influential especially with eco-centric and holistic ethics. ‘A Sand County Almanac’ describes the land around Leopold’s house in Wisconsin. The book denounces the manner in which policy makers often seek an economic motive to support conservation measures. Leopold expresses his idea of a ‘land ethic’, or a proper relationship existing between people and the land they dwell on. Even though the book was published nearly a year after his death, ‘A Sand County Almanac’ is acclaimed as a watershed in the American conservation movement. Excerpt from the book In those days we had never heard of passing up a chance to kill a wolf. In a second we were pumping lead into the pack, but with more excitement than accuracy: how to aim a steep downhill shot is always confusing.When our rifles were empty, the old wolf was down, and a pup was dragging a leg into impassable slide-rocks. We reached the old wolf in time to watch a fierce green fire dying in her eyes. I realized then, and have known ever since, that there was something new to me in those eyes something known only to her and to the mountain. I was young then, and full of trigger-itch; I thought that because fewer wolves meant more deer, that no wolves would mean hunter’s paradise. But after seeing the green die, I sensed that neither the wolf nor the mountain agreed with such a view. Arizona and New Mexico We all strive for safety, prosperity, comfort, long life, and dullness. The deer strives with his supple legs, the cowman with trap and poison, the statesmen with pen, the most of us with machines, votes and dollars, but it all comes to the same thing: peace in our time. A measure of success in this is all well enough, and perhaps is a requisite to objective thinking, but too much safety seems to yield only danger in the long run. Perhaps this is behind Thoreau’s dictum: in wildness is the salvation of the world. Perhaps this is the hidden meaning in the howl of the wolf, long known among mountains, but seldom perceived among men. SECTION 04 WIPRO’S STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVE 24 PREAMBLE: THE SUSTAINABILITY MOBIUS 24 BUSINESS AND THE SUSTAINABILITY MEGAFORCES 28 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE AT WIPRO 29 THE WIPRO SUSTAINABILITY DASHBOARD FOR 2012-13 36 ALIGNING WITH SUSTAINABILITY CHARTERS AND NETWORKS This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 024 The Sustainability Mobius services of natural reserves like forests are complex issues for nations to negotiate. It is now recognised that adaptation capacity is a critical element of planning, which will be The last two decades have been watersheds in recognizing the inextricable links of the severely constrained for poor and developing countries. role and responsibilities of corporations and business to the pressing issues of ecological sustainability and social justice. Beyond issues, these are major risks to long term Like slow shifting sands, the landscape of sustainability related issues and their immediate sustainability of business and the societies that they are part of. and long term impacts keep changing. Over the past few years , there is growing consensus that systemic global economy integration issues and governance, volatility of energy and The earth crossed a grim milestone –the Mauna Loa Observatory in Hawaii recorded food prices , climate change, water stress, urban centric growth focus with resultant atmospheric concentration of CO2 exceeding 400 ppm in May 2014, the highest since migration and geo political issues will have a significant impact on our common near recording began in 1958 at 315 ppm, and probably the highest in about 3 million years.The future. The World Economic Forum’s 2013 Global Risk Report affirms this. These are contrasts are starkly significant – anthropogenic climate change is irrefutable and at the complex, interrelated issues and our fragmented and siloed societal structures have same time a rapid and drastic course correction to stop from it worsening further seems largely been incapable of responding to these with a greater sense of urgency.The lines are impossible without causing socio-economic upheavals. blurring between all the stakeholders, their interests and business – with no clear start The Rio+20 Conference (United Nations conference on Sustainable Development) in and end points much like the mobius strip. June 2012 saw the agreement by member States to launch a process to develop a set of No government can deliver without business coming on board as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which will build upon the Millennium willing partners in thios journey – bringing technology, building Development Goals and converge with the post 2015 development agenda. The united capacities and creating markets for development of sustainable nations climate change talks at Doha in 2012 and recently in Warasaw are aiming to forge a alternatives. In this, business has to collaborate with governments legally binding treaty to cut emissions.The issue of funding developing countries transition, to transition to a future that is equitable to all stakeholders and is attributing loss and damage of natural disasters to climate change and valuing ecosystem cognizant of interdependent issues and planetary boundaries. Business and the Sustainability Megaforces Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role Climate Change Expectations from the annual climate talks (COP’s) are decreasing after Business must set ambitious goals for itself on GHG reduction and energy very little progress done by participating countries in previous years. efficiency and back it up with the necessary investments. The Renewable Energy regulatory framework provides purchase of electricity through The Working Group I report of the IPCC Fifth assessment report points open access, however significant variations exist in grid readiness and to increasing and better evidence of higher average annual temperatures – implementation from state to state. 1983-2012 was likely the warmest 30 year period of the last 1400 years. The increase in flux of carbon and other biogeochemical cycles with Phase 2 of the National Solar Mission with planned capacity of 9 GW has planets ecosystems is more likely to lead to runaway changes in earths recently approved implementation of the first batch of solar projects .The ecosystems. kyoto protocols first commitment period expired in 2012 and a new agreement is expected to be in place before 2015. India has set in motion a However the continued global financial stability and its impact on labor PAT (Perform-Achieve-Trade) scheme , a mandatory energy efficiency markets and growth have constrained countries from taking ambitious scheme which will target 8 of the most energy intensive sectors which long term views. Short term political and economic compulsions force amount to more than 50% of the total emissions. Notwithstanding policy many stakeholders to bite the bullet. Poor and developing countries are issues, business has a critical role in engaging with policy makers, creating most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change – both in their ability to partnership across sectors and their value chain in helping transition to a mitigate and adapt to changes. cleaner economy. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 025 Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role Water Stress In the recent Global Risks Report 2013, released by WEF, Water Agribusinesses and biotech companies must step up research on water supply crisis was ranked as one of the top 5 crisis in terms of likelihood efficient seeds and crops and build awareness, adoption and capacity for and impact (http://www.weforum.org/issues/global-risks). resilience across their value chain. This will have a cascading impact on water availability as agriculture accounts for more than 80% of total The number of people globally without access to clean drinking water or freshwater consumption globally. sanitation continues to rise. Of the 1.1 billion people across the world who do not have access to clean water, 400 million are from India. India is Water intensive industries while continuing to reduce its widely recognized as a water-stressed country with withdrawal to water consumption must ensure that community water resources availability ratios ranging from 0.5 to 0.8. Access to clean water is are not compromised. inevitably linked to positive outcomes on gender equity, higher life The business sector must further the agenda on water by going beyond expectancy and improved child mortality. internal efficiencies and look at water from a responsible, wider angle lens that includes social and ecological impacts of their consumption. Further, they must take the lead on driving advocacy on fair and equitable pricing of water – which implies a willingness to pay significantly higher prices. Sustainable Cities With more than 50% of the world’s population living in cities today and The business sector is one of the prime drivers of increased urbanization with another 1.2 billion people set to join the ranks of city dwellers by and therefore has a major stake in reversing the tide of unsustainable 2025, cities are often power centers in their own right. urbanization that is the norm today. Cities are held to be crucibles of innovation, diversity and wealth creation; Business must work with city governments in shaping the policy agenda in at the same time, they are responsible for a disproportionate share of the direction of sustainable urban spaces. resource consumption, air and water pollution and for destroying natural Sustainable infrastructure – starting with proper siting, materials ecosystems. They also have largely contributed to unplanned procurement, energy efficient assets, mass transit systems, smart uses of development, resulting in urban sprawl putting high stresses on natural technology along with the preservation of water ecosystems, biodiversity, resources like water and contributing to migration from rural areas – due and community spaces must find place in the business sector’s social to the prevalent urban centric growth model in the minds of policy agenda. makers and planners. Universal Education That education is the most powerful force multiplier in the vision of a just, Business must recognize that solving the seemingly intractable problems humane and sustainable society is almost axiomatic . It is one of the eight of quality education cannot be the government’s job alone. U.N. MDGs and high on the priorities of most governments and yet As the biggest customer for the education system’s output – employable achieving universal education has proven to be an elusive goal for many talent business must partner with government in addressing the developing countries. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 026 Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role With nearly 35% of children in Class 5 in India not able to read or write, challenges of education. This will require a steely willingness to get we clearly have a long path ahead. This is borne by recent studies: involved in a sector where the processes of change are gradual and where Pratham’s Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), the Programme for outcomes are likely to become visible only over decades. International Students Assessment (PISA) and the Quality Education Study (QES) by Wipro and Educational Initiatives. Diversity, Inclusivity and Diversity as a key engine of innovation and balance has been accepted by The business sector must commit to strong affirmative action to promote Human Rights social historians and increasingly business. diversity and inclusivity at the workplace. The dimensions must include gender, nationality, physical disability and economic status at the minimum. Closely linked to diversity are the twin issues of Inclusivity and Human Rights – eliminating discrimination on any ground and including Further, business must exercise oversight on its supply chain to ensure disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is a crucial driver that basic human rights are protected without exception – in particular, of more diverse and vibrant schools, colleges, workplaces and cities. child and forced labor must be avoided without exception. But as the latest U.N MDG reports indicate, progress has been slow. On gender diversity for example : women continue to be over-represented in vulnerable jobs and under-represented in mainstream jobs e.g. as per the recent NSS (National Sample Survey), the work participation rate for women in the organized sector has fallen from 25.6 in 2001 to 22% in 2011-12. And as per International Disability Rights Monitor, nearly 3/4ths of persons with physical disability are unemployed. Empowerment of women has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes e.g. the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources like water and healthier families. Ethics and Transparency Transparency is normally equated with ethical behavior, anti-corruption Post the global financial crisis and series of business and government and high standards of voluntary disclosures. Financial corruption, as much corruption scandals, public trust in business has toppled.Therefore, one of as it is a moral issue, diverts crucial monies from much needed spending the business sector’s primary tasks is to restore trust in itself.This, it must on social challenges and has therefore, an indirect but tangible impact on do through transparent disclosures about its products and services, and sustainability. Disclosures by institutions hold them up to public scrutiny demonstrate what it is doing to protect human rights within and outside and thereby, in a constant state of responsible behavior. the company and about its zero tolerance for bribery, corruption and discriminatory practices. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 027 Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update The Business Sector’s Role Sustainable Food Rising food inflation in India and in many other parts of the world over the Business should actively engage with various stakeholders last few years is seen by experts as symptomatic of a deeper malaise with (environmentalists, nutritional scientists and citizen groups) to ensure agriculture and the food supply chain.As the global population is set to rise that food productivity is balanced with potential impacts of the solutions from 7 billion to 9 billion over the next four decades, the problem of on the long term impacts to food diversity and pollution. feeding the world adequately is further compounded by considerations of Food logistics companies must continuously reduce wastage in the equity and sustainability. supply chain. Agriculture is the biggest consumer of water , accounting for nearly 80%; Agri-business must collaborate with academia and research institutes for Reducing the intensity of its water consumption can prove central to ways of preserving and enhancing soil fertility for that holds the key to water security in many countries . Other sustainability challenges include sustainable food security. improving crop productivity without the use of soil depleting pesticides/ fertilizers and encouraging continued dialogue on biotechnology’s role. Eliminating Poverty An outcome of the global financial crisis of 2008 that is not widely known Business – in consonance with government must address poverty is that the number of people living in extreme poverty has actually risen elimination in two ways – first, it must place job creation as one of its since then. Fuelled by the economic crisis and rising food inflation, nearly 2 central responsibilities and second it must address underserved and billion people live on less than $1.25 a day at 2005 prices – as extreme unserved markets with appropriate products and services e.g. poverty is defined . Linked with extreme poverty are higher infant and microfinance, affordable product versions for the poor, local sourcing maternal mortality, lower life expectancy and poor levels of education. that opens up local livelihood options, extremely affordable quality healthcare etc. The fact that addressing these markets has a strong business case should be further reason for the business sector to embrace the poverty challenge whole-heartedly. Wipro is deeply aware of these sustainability forces and the complex inter-relation between them. We are engaged intensely with some of these, especially on the issues of climate change, water, education, diversity and inclusivity and transparency. These are detailed in the rest of the report. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 028 Sustainability Strategy and Governance at Wipro The unique characteristic of corporate sustainability is that it straddles both the worlds governance structure that addresses the twin drivers of strategy and execution equally. of business and the social arena outside; this can however result in its confused What follows is a visual representation of key elements of sustainability governance and positioning within the organization and therefore, it is critical to set up an effective how Wipro tries to address them. Sustainability Sustainability Governance At Wipro Governance At Wipro A compelling l Our view of corporate citizenship is based on the Create a robust l eco eye and Wipro’s Finance Group have created a policy vision that has belief that business must get involved in social issues investment decision and decision framework that provides guidelines for leadership backing because it is the right thing to do, and not because of framework evaluating internal investment proposals on sustainability; compliance pressures. the framework balances the need for accelerated implementation of sustainability programs with the need to stay focused on financial prudence. l eco eye carries primary responsibility for Wipro’s Vest formal sustainability program at the corporation level; WATIS, accountability at Mission10X and Wipro Cares carry distinct responsibilities Integrate into l All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular corporate level for education and community care programs. mainstream planning and budgeting cycles of the corporation. planning, l The sustainability program is reviewed quarterly at multiple budgeting and levels – by the board, by the corporate executive council review processes and by the chairman. Sustainability l Drive committed involvement of key functions across the organization. For environmental goals Wipro’s Facilities is everyones Create Management Group and Civil Infrastructure groups are l Formal training programs on sustainability are conducted business organizational for EHS, HR and Finance managers at regular intervals. key custodians and hold responsibility against defined goals; Other key stakeholders that hold defined capacity at multiple levels l An e-learning program on diversity that is available to all sustainability goals are Human Resources, Legal, Finance, employees as part of the employee portal. Communications and Risk Office. l Creation of Sustainability Council consisting of l Finance and Corporate Communication are also C-level and senior leaders who meet on a quarterly basis to deeply involved. review the progress of our sustainability goals. l A strong employee chapter program that is based on l We have a structured and well defined dashboard of five voluntary but committed participation. Set well defined year goals for Energy, GHG reduction, Water, Waste and and measurable Biodiversity; these goals have year-wise milestones and are Learn and l Our programs in Education, Community Care and sustainability goals part of all our public disclosures. Sustainability Advocacy are largely predicated on the continuously l We have similarly articulated statement of direction and explore the power principle of nurturing partner networks that foster qualitative goals on Health and Safety, Diversity, Green of partnership synergies between different areas of expertise and diversity Computing and Education. of institutions in the country. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 029 The Wipro Sustainability Dashboard for 2012-13 If sustainability is to be embedded in an organisation, the same rigor of goal setting, the sustainability dashboard below are a condensed summary but a complete measurement and monitoring is necessary as is common in business operations. understanding of these dimensions is possible only in the detailed analysis that follows in Sustainability goals hide multiple layers and dimensions many of which are not subsequent sections. quantifiable or where a numerical metric does not disclose the complete picture. Our position therefore is that the rigor of goal setting and tracking in the sustainability arena must not be equated to a set of neat numbers. The goals and measures presented in Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012 13) Vision and Goals for Future Energy & GHG Intensity l Our Energy Efficiency per employee in India for 2012 13 is 246 units l To reduce Wipro’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity (kwh) per month compared to 258 units per month for the year by 45% from 2.42 MT per employee in 2010 2011 to 1.3 MT per 2011-12.This has resulted in a 4.7% decrease owing to improvements employee by 2014 2015. By this we aim to reduce nearly 60,600 in energy efficiency and higher occupancy resulting from better tons from Wipro’s IT business. space management. l To include the remaining applicable categories for Scope 3 emission l Our GHG emission intensity (tons per employee per annum) has heads and baseline set targets. reduced by nearly 10 % to 1.76 metric tons per employee as compared l To gradually increase the share of Renewable Energy in our energy mix to 1.95 metric tons in 11-12u n.This represents the global Scope 1 and from about 17% currently to over 40% by 2015. 2 footprint from our office space operations. l For 2012-13, out of the 15 categories, we have reported on 9 out of 12 applicable categories for Scope 3 GHG emissions. This is as per the new GHG corporate value chain standard. Emissions from upstream transportation of computing product components are also covered. l Renewable Energy consumption for total office space consumption increased from 17% to 19%. 3 Water Efficiency l 839389 m of water was recycled through treatment plants in 24 of our l To improve our fresh water efficiency by 5% year-on-year as measured major locations amounting to 30% of total water consumption. The on a per employee basis (Base year: 2010-11). This translates into recycled water is primarily used for sanitation and landscaping. a reduction from 1730 liters per employee per month to 1480 liters per employee per month by 2015. l Per employee water consumption for 2012-13 has reduced by 8.4% from 1.71 m3 in year 2011-12 to 1.58 m3 per month in 2012-13. l To reduce fresh water consumption by 20% over the next two years through various integrated measures. l Zero discharge of any untreated water into municipal drains or common public areas is ensured in all Wipro owned campuses. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 030 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012-13) Vision and Goals for Future An extensive l environmental and social study of water cycle at two of The “Responsible l Water Use Framework” will be rolled out across our large campuses and the proximate communities was conducted in Wipro Campuses in 2013 14. 2012 13 in association with a reputed water expert group. This year Water audit of campuses to improve data quality. l long program resulted in the “Responsible Water Use Framework”. Further l treatment of recycled water to increase tertiary uses (cleaning, cooling) and improve recycling ratio. Incorporate rain water harvesting best practices across campuses. Waste Recycling and Around 90% of the total generated waste from IT operations in India is l To ensure l that by 2014 that not more than 5% of the total waste recycled either within our premises or externally through vendors. reaches landfills; 95% of the waste to be processed within Wipro itself Pollution Mitigation Based on the waste supply chain audit conducted earlier in 2013, which or through partners and either recycled for further use or safely pointed gaps in traceability and reporting from partners these disposed off. numbers are more than likely to be revised based on the improvement Our Waste l Management Program and goals will be reviewed in plans underway. 2013-14 to identify areas of improvement and goals will be set for 235 tons l of end of life e-waste was collected and recycled through the next five years. authorized vendors during the reporting period. An independent l waste assessment audit was initiated across 'Computing l E-waste Take Back program' handles the computing waste our locations in 2012-13. The audit included both electronic and at Wipro. There are currently 20 collection centers across India for solid waste. collection and end of life Desktops and Laptops. We plan l to revamp our e-waste management program based on the new E-Waste Management and Handling Rule 2012 to improve on our current practices. Biodiversity The first phase of the Integrated biodiversity project at the EC campus l To convert five of our campuses into Biodiversity Zones by 2015. Start l in Bangalore – the Butterfly Park is completed. census study and approach work on the Pune campus. Commence work on Phase 2 of the EC campus project which features l a 3 acre wetland ecosystem. To have l all new campuses to incorporate biodiversity principles as an important part of their design. Employee Health 3 more l facilities are now ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified, this Sustain l and improve on our wellness programs across businesses and Safety brings the total to 22 locations which are ISO 14001 certified and and locations. 20 locations which are OHSAS 18001 certified. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 031 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012-13) Vision and Goals for Future Employee l Health & Safety committees: Committees that consist of Conduct l Health and Safety assessments for all infrastructural cross functional members formed across locations who meet modifications prior to their commissioning. quarterly & participate in risk assessments, safety inspections, hygiene All Occupational l Health Centers to become Emergency Care audits, etc. Centers that house emergency equipment, drugs and Advanced Life Two l in-house Occupational Health Centers (OHC) were added, Safety Ambulance. putting a total of 22 locations across India to provide amenities ranging Complete l OHSAS and EMS certifications for the balance owned from basic First Aid and to emergency care units. The OHCs facilities. To strengthen the team of counselors by adding new are operated 24/7 at major campus locations. The OHC aims at volunteers across locations to Mitr, our Employee Assistance monitoring and managing adverse health effects that may occur Program (EAP). at the work place by promoting good workplace health practices, imparting health education, conducting employee awareness programs, capturing illness trends and by developing a framework to interpret employee health statistics to drive fitness. Our Counselling l program for Wipro employees Mitr, completed 10 years during the reporting period. Employee engagement and involvement continues to be l strengthened with online surveys to invite employee feedback on Environment, Health & Safety, Transportation, Hospitality and related services. Environment, Health & Safety received high scores, while the latter present identified opportunities for improvement. Recognising l the need to maintain a healthy work life balance Wipro BPO has introduced the “work from home” policy for certain specific roles. This policy benefits those employees who are unable to travel to work due to personal/medical reasons of themselves or family members. Diversity and Inclusion The program l is designed to actively reach/seek out and nurture three To continue l to strengthen our diversity initiatives around gender, areas of Diversity – People with Disability, Gender, Nationality and the people with disability and nationality. This will translate into both, Economically Disadvantaged. (I) higher numbers and proportions and (II) processes and systems. We have 457 persons with disabilities working in various roles To further l our supplier engagement program on diversity by across geographies – those who have declared their disabilities as of empanelling more suppliers who meet the criteria of a 30th September 2013. This is an increase from 350 in March 2012. ‘Diversity Supplier’. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 032 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012-13) Vision and Goals for Future The percentage of women in Wipro’s workforce increased to 30% Work l with industry associations, like NASSCOM in India on supplier from 28% in the past reporting period. diversity advocacy. Globally Wipro’s workforce comprises of 98 nationalities with 8.5% of non-Indian employees. Diversity l parameters are incorporated into our supplier evaluation questionnaire and are being actively sought where appropriate. Feedback l in Action was launched in 2012-13 consolidating all of Wipro's employee feedback mechanisms such as the Employee Perception Survey, Employee Advocacy Group and Wipro Meets. Conscious l effort to source meritorious talent for each diversity category. Relationship program with sourcing agencies. Wipro's l first rural BPO delivery centre Manjakkudi, saw a staggering 150% growth since it was established in 2011. l“Mentoring for Success” program in 2012-13 saw 100 high potential women from middle management participating in mentoring conversations, with mentors from General Manager and Vice President roles. Introduced l extended maternity leave and support programs for new mothers. People Development Employee l Perception Survey (EPS) 2012-13 had 60% of the global Create l initiatives to strengthen capability and build careers across Wipro IT business workforce participate in it. Recorded higher levels levels, for a global workforce. of engagement over EPS – an improvement of 4% compared to 2009. Create and implement an overarching EmployeeValue Proposition that l Over l 10,000 Learning Programs delivered across the organization aims to enhance continuous learning through multi-dimensional during the current reporting year. learning opportunities appropriate to every career stage. Over l 650 certified Wipro Learning Champions from across the business. Over 3834 students joined the Wipro Academy of Software Excellence l (WASE) program, now in its 19th year. 692 employees were hired through the Wipro Software Technology Academy (WiSTA) Program . Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 033 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012-13) Vision and Goals for Future During l 2012-13 over 3600 leaders across Operations, Technical Specialist functions, Sales and Senior Management roles attended and participated in assessment / development centres. E-learning l introduced in 2012-13 for engineering campus new hires. This resulted in 25% of the inductions being conducted via the e-learning portal. Our Unified Competency Framework continues to help employees get l certified on various technical skills. Special focus is given on middle manager capability building via Growth l Centers for Program Managers, Delivery Manager Academy and a new career framework for architects. Leadership l capacity building aligned to Wipro Leaders Qualities (WLQ) enters its 21st year. Customer Stewardship All models l of Wipro laptops and desktops are 100% RoHS compliant Launch l the supplier engagement program for our top suppliers based since 2009-10. During the reporting period 100% of imported and on the supply chain risk assessment study conducted in association 86.84% of locally sourced components were also RoHS compliant. with two UK based organizations,Trucost and Fronesys. Launched first PVC and BFR free desktop idn early 2010, a significant l Continue l to work on the energy-chemicals-waste management plank portion of our desktop product launched continue to be PVC and at the same time providing differentiated value proposition to BFR free. our customers. Launched two desktop models free from antimony, beryllium and l Continue l to explore environmental innovations on IT solutions for phthalates in 2011-12. natural capital intensive business sectors like energy, utilities, mining, All our desktops and laptops continue to be Energy Star 5 as well as l logistics, manufacturing and distributed retail. with new Indian standard: BEE StarVer 1 standard for laptops. Progressively l include sustainability considerations into procurement Green LeafEnterprise power management solution continues to be l available with desktops. decisions further to our Ethical Supplier Chain Program. 235 tons of end of life e-waste was collected and processed during l 2012-13 from 20 collection centers. Comprehensive e-waste management study in progress to assess impact of new e-waste regulations. W-elite, our first annual supplier meet conducted in the first half l of 2013. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 034 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012-13) Vision and Goals for Future Education and l Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS), is our decade long Wipro l Applying Thought in Schools: To strengthen our programs Community Initiatives program to bring about systemic reforms in school education. It has based on the defined outcomes of organizational capability reached out to around 10500 educators and 800000 children across development, educational material and publications and 2000 + schools in 17 states through multiple programs that we public advocacy. have done through our network of 31 partner organisations across the country. Earthian: Build l a strong sustainability in education program for schools and colleges over the next five years through our Continuous l WATIS has continued to work with its Partners Matrubhoomi and CSE (Centre for Science and Environment) for season watch program, Engagement Program to continuously evolve and diversify the program social sciences curriculum intervention, bilingual approaches to to encourage the intake of Sustainability into the curriculum of Schools language education and holistic school engagement program. and Colleges across the country and beyond. l Earthian – Over 2000 institutions participated in earthian over the past Wipro l Cares: To further strengthen our programs in primary health two years. 2012 13 saw the introduction of an activity based program care by expanding to our other factory locations; to continue our on Water for Schools, to help school students understand the existing programs in education for the underprivileged in urban criticality of sustainable water use. Continuing engagement program centers and community environment programs. incorporating biodiversity, theater in education, environmental audit and teacher capacity building offered to schools. 8 unique internships completed in sustainability space for college students. l Mission10X reached out to a cumulated total of 23000 faculty members from 1200 engineering colleges across 25 states. Introduced an innovative “Unified Technology Learning Platform (UTLP). Wipro Cares Completed three years of Wipro Cares first health care project in Waluj, Maharastra Sanjeevani. Provided access to primary health care to around 51000 people through five of its health care projects in Maharashtra, Karnataka & Andhra Pradesh. l Supported 14 projects including projects related to Access to Education, Restoration of Environment, Employee Engagement etc. l Phase II of the social forestry project with TIST saw planting of 25,000 saplings by 22 farmers in Tiruvannamalai District,TamilNadu. l New Projects in 2012-13 were assistance to people affected by Hurricane Sandy, Communication Skills Enhancement Program (CSEP), a pilot project at Manjakuddi, WIPRO’s first rural BPO. l Employee volunteers in 2012-13 grew to 183 volunteers in India and 80 Overseas volunteers. l Digital Inclusion: A recent addition to our community program focusing on low cost technology interventions in health care and citizen services for rural areas. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 035 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2012-13) Vision and Goals for Future Advocacy and Our engagement on public policy and on issues that require wider To continue l to play a central role in advancing the agenda on critical Public Policy advocacy centered around climate change, water, e-Waste, education issues of Climate Change, Energy Efficiency,Water and Waste through and CSR. industry networks like CII, FICCI and NASSCOM. l We continue to be part of the CII Climate Change Council which To be l closely involved in shaping the specifics of the guidelines works with government and industry on furthering the agenda on pertaining to Section 135 on the CSR provisions of the Companies climate change mitigation and adaptation. Bill 2012. l We have partnered with Biome to convene a multi-stakeholder To continue our strong l advocacy on relevant systemic issues of school workshop with senior level representation from government, education through the publishing of studies and literature. academia, civil society and industry. To continue l to work with (i) network of academic and civil society l Engage in-depth with the Indian government – in particular, the partners for on the on ground action and (ii) through industry Ministry of Corporate Affairs – on the CSR provisions in the networks to steer inclusive policies and regulations in the following Companies Bill 2012 amendments; this process was followed through focus areas: the CII working group as well as through direct engagement. Energy and Climate Change l As part of the CII Environment Committee,Wipro was also a convener Water of the working group on e-Waste. Biodiversity E-Waste l In association with Educational Initiatives, we undertook a study as part Education, including 'Sustainability Education' of our Quality Education Study (QES). Seminars were conducted in 5 metro cities which was attended by 700+ functionaries.This has been Diversity one of our key advocacy programs for the year 2012-13. To raise l the pitch on issues of water – in particular those relating to l Through earthian,Wipro's flagship program in sustainability education endowment, entitlement, pricing and inclusive access – through our for schools and colleges, our goal is to act as catalysts for wider Responsible Water Advocacy. sustainability advocacy among the young in India's schools and colleges. l Our annual forum with our education partners deliberated on Assessment and School Education and delved into key questions within Assessment. l We supported the annual workshop of the Conservation Education Network to discuss and share knowledge on their educational initiatives across India. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 036 Aligning with Sustainability Charters and Networks Sustainability is a multi-stakeholder game and collective action is the only effective way to address it challenges. Since inception, we have believed that subscribing to select charters and aligning with the right networks can be a force multiplier for some of our own programs. We continue to be deeply engaged with the networks that we started out with – we provide below the updated summary of our associations and networks that is an updated version of the table in our previous report Charter /Network /Association Brief Description and Goals Wipro’s Vision Engagement for Future Carbon Disclosure Project The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a pioneer in climate action by Wipro has been a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project since trying to align industry, government and the investment community 2007-08 and has been a ranked member 1 in the Carbon Disclosure onto a common vision and platform. It represents the interests of 655 Leadership Index (CDLI) India for two consecutive years 2012 and investors with a combined asset base of US $ 78 trillion and illustrates 2013.We were also part of the Global CDLI in 2012, the only company the growing trend of responsible investment. from India in the index. CII-ITC CESD’s task force The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development (CESD) constituted Wipro has been a part of the core working group, the primary on CSR guidelines a task force to study the proposed guidelines on CSR from the Ministry recommendations of which have been of Corporate Affairs (MCA). The group has been engaged with the I. The ministry’s proposed 2% of Profit After Tax spend on CSR should government as the voice of industry and in trying to evolve a balanced not be mandatory as it certain to become counter-productive. perspective of the bill’s provisions. II. To keep the reporting requirement as simple and consistent as possible. CII Environment The committee constituted of a working group on e-Waste; the Wipro was also a convener of the working group. Committee working group’s goal was to bring producers, customers, recyclers and government together to a common platform in order to discuss improvements to the e-Waste Rules 2012. Wipro Sustainability Wipro’s Report 2012-13 Strategic Perspective 037 Charter /Network /Association Brief Description and Goals Wipro’s Vision Engagement for Future India Green Building The IGBC was formed under the aegis of the CII in 2001 with the goal Wipro is one of the executive members of the IGBC panel that Council (IGBC) of ushering in a ‘Green Building’ movement in India . evolved the Green Building standards for India. India’s National Action The NAPCC comprises eight missions on different aspects of Wipro has partnered with Cstep in researching and publishing a paper Plan on Climate Change sustainable development and is India’s official charter on on the roadmap for the National Solar Mission (NSM). (NAPCC) Climate Change. Indian Society for Technical The ISTE is a nodal group at the national level which furthers the cause Wipro’s Mission10X is a member of the iSTE. Education (ISTE) of engineering education in the right direction. Please visit http://www.isteonline.in/ for details U.N. Global Compact The ten principles of the UNGC act as both a policy platform Wipro became a formal signatory to the UNGC in September 2008. and a practical framework for companies that are committed Our first CoP (Communication on Progress) was published in July to sustainability 2010 and our most recent CoP was published in 2013 CII committee for The confederation of Indian Industry (CII) constituted a committee Wipro is part of the core committee. employment of people to look into issues of employability of people with disabilities into with disabilities the workforce. NASSCOM working group NASSCOM constituted a working group to explore and communicate Wipro is a member of the working group. on gender inclusion best practices on gender inclusion. MAIT MAIT consisted of a working group on the ‘e-waste 2012’ regulation Wipro is a member of the working group. (Manufacturers’ Association of Information Technology) Catalyst India Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding Wipro CEO is chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board. opportunities for women and business. SILENT SPRING Rachel Louise Carson was a marine biologist, conservationist and a nature writer. Carson took up the cudgels for Rachel Carson conservation of nature against the untold damage being caused by synthetic pesticides. Her efforts led to a nationwide ban on DDT and other pesticides in USA and helped draft a new policy for the country. Rachel Carson, through ‘The Silent Spring’ presents us with the truth. With courage, clear-sightedness, sincerity & skillful scientific accuracy, she suggests there is an alternative. She gives birth to the idea of sustainability – the capacity to sustain, rather than decimate. The book inspired a grassroots environmental movement that led to the creation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Excerpt from the book One of the astonishing features of life that you notice in Europe or in the United States of America is the general absence of birds and their lively music in the residential areas. There is no chatter of birds, no chirruping of crickets and no croaking of frogs. This is to be contrasted with the experience of countries like Malaysia or India. Be it in the city or the village, daylight arrives with birdsong, twittering, whistling and cooing. The monsoon brings with it its own special sound: the chorus of frogs in the fields. The effect of a chemical of supposedly innocuous nature can be drastically changed by the action of another; one of the best examples is a close relative of DDT called methoxychlor. Because it is not stored to any great extent when given alone, we are told that methoxychlor is a safe chemical. But if the liver has been damaged by another agent, methoxychlor is stored in the body at 100 times its normal rate, and will then imitate the effects of DDT with long-lasting effects on the nervous system. SECTION 05 WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS 41 A SUMMARY OF OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Wipro and its Report 2012-13 stakeholders 040 Wipro and its stakeholders A sustainability-led organization takes a holistic and integrated approach to stakeholder engagement.The primacy is not with just one group investors, employees or customers. For business to earn and retain its rightful role in society it has to engage on key material issues and potential risks with different stakeholders. At the same time, an organization has varying degrees of influence and control over its stakeholders, dependent on the structure of its relationships and relative economic power. For example, an organization running its operations from community sources in a water stressed area has to necessarily engage with the community – responsibly and with various groups – civil society and the government. It is no more a question of why and which stakeholders, it is how and how much. We have always viewed our customers, employees and investors as strategic partners and stakeholders. Over the last decade, our deep outreach into education and community care has brought us in close engagement with two new stakeholders – partners in the education ecosystem and proximate communities. While the IT services industry model does not necessitate a deep supply chain, the rapid expansion of this sector in the last two decades has resulted in a variety of ancillary services e.g. bus transport, housekeeping, canteen, security. Services suppliers and contractors have become thus a critical stakeholder for our operations. As the case study on the Wipro Green PC in Section 5D shows, our suppliers have played a strategic role in the success of our Green Computing journey. In progressing towards the goal of a sustainable and inclusive society, government, academia and research play a crucial role – the government by legislating progressive policies and the academic/research worlds by driving fundamental innovation. Over the last three years, Wipro has started engaging and collaborating closely with government and policy bodies on matters related to energy, water and ICT in governance. Simultaneously, we have also started collaborative partnerships with research and academic institutions. To these stakeholders, we have added another stakeholder, Current and Future Generations. We think that the future must inform our thinking and actions on sustainability more than anything else, otherwise our vision will stop short of being truly sustainable; therefore, while this stakeholder group may not have a tangible and real face to it, they act as an anchor for our decisions. What follows is a summary representation of our eight stakeholders, the modes and frequency of our engagement with them, the major issues of engagement that have emerged over a period of time and the primary internal custodians within Wipro for each of these groups Wipro Sustainability Wipro and its Report 2012-13 stakeholders 041 A Summary of our Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Customers Modes: Strategic and operational reviews, Quality and timeliness of delivery The Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Business Customer meets, Formal customer feedback Impact on customer’s business goals Operations Officer, the Chief Quality Officer, the and surveys. Sales and Marketing functions and their teams. Does Wipro meet the expected norms on Frequency: Ongoing and continuous; Surveys are environment, labor and human rights and annual and project-based. corporate responsibility?. Employees Modes: Open houses, Performance reviews, Empowerment, Continuous Learning, Quality The Human Resources group, Environment Health, 360 degree feedback, All hands meet, Focus of Work, Work-Life balance Safety group (joint responsibility for health and groups, Leadership webcasts, Blogs and discussion Compensation & Benefits,Workplace facilities safety), Talent Transformation, CHRD, FMG and groups, Perception surveys. Wividus. Health & Safety , Counseling and Advice Frequency: Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual Diversity in the workplace (360 degree feedback). Career planning, Appraisal and Feedback Integrity and transparency at workplace, the company’s larger vision on sustainability and social issues Investors Modes: Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, Company strategy and performance, Investor Relations team, Chief Finance Officer, Investor meets, Analyst conferences, Roadshows, future plans Chief Strategy Officer. Shareholder voting, Investor complaints Returns to shareholders Frequency: Ranges from Quarterly to Annual ; Corporate governance standards Analyst meets and roadshows may be periodic Top risks and company’s approach to depending on situational requirement risk mitigation Suppliers Modes: Regular operational reviews, Supplier Quality and cost effectiveness of services The Central Procurement Office, Wividus meets, Vendor survey Innovativeness of delivery Shared Services, Facilities Management Group, Frequency: Will vary from monthly to annual 100% compliance on labor and human rights; Legal Group. Must subscribe to Wipro COBCE Zero tolerance for lapses in integrity Alignment with Wipro expectations on ecological sustainability Wipro Sustainability Wipro and its Report 2012-13 stakeholders 042 A Summary of our Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Brief Description Major Issues of Engagement Vision andPrimary Wipro’s Goals FutureCustodian Internal Engagement for The Education Modes: Periodic meetings and discussions, l Systemic reform in India’s school education Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) for Ecosystem Regular e-mail exchanges, Annual Education system: Educational material and publications, school education Forum, Faculty Workshops, Mission10X Organizational capability development and Mission10X for engineering education collaborative portal public advocacy Frequency:Varies from weekly to annual l Improving the quality of engineering education through both curriculum interventions and faculty training Communities Modes: Periodic meetings with partners, open l Education for disadvantaged children e.g. Wipro Cares, Location leadership and NGOs meets with community, Partner newsletters children of migrant labourers, children with Frequency: Varies from monthly to quarterly hearing disability etc l Primary healthcare for rural communities l Environment issues that affect disadvantaged communities e.g.Water l Long term rehabilitation for disaster affected areas Policy, Research Modes: Planned meetings, workshops, taskforces l India’s policies on climate change, energy Eco-eye, Corporate Affairs group, and Advocacy and steering committees of industry network efficiency, water, e-waste and ICT Senior Leadership bodies l Policy research on energy options for India Frequency: Varies from monthly to annual l Advocacy papers and reports on business responsibility Current and Modes: Indirect inference from our school l Ecological sustainability of our planet eco eye, Human Resources Future interventions mentioned above, Published l Meaningful work, work life balance Generations sociological research and analysis of emerging generation Sections 5B to 5H that follow provide extensive details of each of the stakeholder programs. For reasons of consistency, we continue to report on our Education and Community Care programs in one section. To the hugely erudite Ramachandra Guha, sacrificing the larger interest for short term gains is sacrilege. Having grown up in the hilly terrains of Uttarakhand, Guha feels deeply for the land of his childhood. ‘The Unquiet Woods’ is a dedication to their cause as he lauds the Chipko movement a peaceful, yet steadfast protest by the villagers that resonated across the Himalayan valley & the world. Historian, economist, essayist, columnist & cricket historian, Ramachandra Guha is the modern voice of an Indian conscience. Ramachandra Guha’s love for the environment is amply evident. He has dedicated several decades of his life attempting to get to the root of the various kinds of environmental challenges India faces. Staying true to his passion for nature, in 1989 Guha wrote ‘The Unquiet Woods’ based on the popular Chipko movement which adopted Mahatma Gandhi's methods of Satyagraha and non-violent resistance; that translated into thousands of people protecting trees from being felled by the simple act of hugging them. THE Excerpt from the book UNQUIET One of the more significant agitations occurred in the Pindar valley, near the village of Dungri-Paintoli. Here the men of the village wanted to sell their oak forest to horticultural department, which intended to establish a Potato farm on the land. WOODS RAMACHANDRA GUHA If the forest, the only good one for miles around, had been cut, the women would have had to walk a long distance every day to collect fuel and fodder. When the women voiced their opposition, it went unheeded. At this juncture Chipko activists intervened and, helped by the district administration, ensured that the forest area remaining (some forest had already been cleared) was saved. Angered at the woman’s success, the village headman threatened Bhatt and his colleague 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 Ramesh Pahari with dire consequences if they came back to the area. The significance of Dungri-Paintoli lies in the open conflict of interest between the Children too joined in a movement which recreated the atmosphere of joyous men and women of the village. Lured by promises of better communications and celebration in a fight against injustice. When police camped in Dhadi Ghandiyal other ‘modern’ facilities, the men hoped to make some quick money. The women, High School, children went on strike in protest at the invasion of a ‘temple of for their part, ‘raised some fundamental questions challenging the system’. In their knowledge’ (Vidya Mandir). While the strike itself lasted four days, all through the opinion, agriculture and animal rearing was entirely dependent upon them, both Andolan students skipped school with the connivance of the teachers. As the closely related to the forest, and yet they were not consulted with regard to any principal recounted, he was placed in an awkward position, with the police (decisions) taken relating to forestry. harassing him on the one hand and, on the other, villagers imploring him to let his wards come to the forest. The school teacher, highly respected in Garhwal, The Andolan symbolized in his person the conflict between government and people. As a Following upon this activity and just prior to the proposed logging in the figure of authority the state expected him to control the people, while the people Malgaddi forest, sarvodaya workers, trusted associates of the Chipko leader wanted sanction for their acts by that very same authority. Sunderlal Bahuguna, came to Badyargarh to enquire into the people’s grievances. These leaders, Dhum Singh Negi, Kunwar Prasun, Pratap Shikhar and Vijay Jardari, among others, went from village to village informing people of the proposed felling and its harmful ecological consequences. At the same time Bahuguna’s wife, Vimla, and other ladies mobilized the village women on the issue. The Andolan started on 25th December 1978 but acquired momentum only after Bahuguna went on a hunger fast from 9th January 1979. Conducted in a disused shepherd’s hut in the forest, and in the middle of winter, the fast was a rallying point for people of the surrounding villages. Thus, over three thousand men, women and children participated. One for every chir tree in the forest. An attempt at cutting by night was failed by villagers taking night duty by turns. Classic non co-operation tactics were adopted, there being no question of any violence used (“himsa ka koi saval nahin tha”). Bahuguna was carried away by the police on the night of 22nd January and interned in Tehri jail, where he continued his fast. Meanwhile, a reading of the Bhagavad Gita was started on the 26th meeting determined resistance from the villagers even after the removal of their leader from the scene, the contractor and forest officials had to admit defeat and abandon felling. Participation: A feature of the Andolan was the active participation of all social groups. This was explained by evident fact that all were equally affected by deforestation. The Bajgis, a caste of musicians, were solicited to mobilize villagers through their dholaks (drums).Women played a prominent part, as did government servants and defence personnel, though their support could only be covert. SECTION 5B EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABILITY AT THE WORKPLACE This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 046 Approach to Human Capital On-boarding We believe that our global workforce thrives in an environment characterized by l All new hires are taken through a session on the Spirit of Wipro to orient them to our openness, transparency and opportunity for development. Being committed to nurturing culture. They also have access to a ‘buddy’ system for continued support, a quick people and talent, we intensified our efforts to empower employees and provide them checklist to help them get started with their jobs and a 30-day & 90-day meaningful opportunities for learning and growth during 2012-13.We added breadth and feedback survey. depth to several of our policies, processes and benefits programmes to better fit specific l Additionally, we have a senior leadership on-boarding programme which has a role geographic and business contexts. specific induction plan. During 2012-13, the team initiated action on specific policy revision and advocacy and Engagement and Empowerment quarterly reviews of the progress made were undertaken by Wipro’s Sustainability Council, consisting of the CEOs of all Wipro Ltd. Divisions, Chief Sustainability Officer, The leadership team engages with employees through the year, via interactive forums such and senior executives responsible for Ecological, Social and Diversity programmes. as business unit level ‘All Hands Meets’,‘Function Meets’ and company level ‘Wipro Meets’, during which leaders share business performance highlights, award Fairness and meritocracy are key drivers of our talent management practices. One outstanding performers, set the context for the rest of the year and also indicator of this is our female to male salary ratio, which is just under 1across levels in our seek employee feedback. IT businesses. Feedback in Action Commitment to Human Rights Empowerment was a key theme for people engagement last year. The year 2012-13 saw Our people policies and practices are shaped by the Spirit of the launch of Feedback in Action, under which all of Wipro’s employee feedback Wipro values and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics mechanisms such as the Employee Perception Survey, Employee Advocacy Group and (COBCE). In addition, our India policies are aligned with the Wipro Meets have been consolidated. National Voluntary Guidelines. The COBCE guides our actions as a responsible employer; it reflects the principles of Employee Perception Survey and Employee Pulse Survey the UN Global Compact, UN Universal Declaration of Human The Employee Perception Survey, launched by the CEO in 2011 and held once every 2 Rights and International Labour Organization and undergoes years, has always been the most effective way of gathering employees’ opinions on career, periodic revision to stay aligned with the global principles of human rights and the professional development, manager quality, rewards and other critical areas. Some of the emerging business landscape. actions that have been implemented are briefly described in the following sections. l Training sessions on the COBCE are conducted as part of our new hire l 60% of the global Wipro IT business workforce participated in the survey and the assimilation process, and campus hires also attend extensive sessions on the overall engagement scores improved by 4% to 67% compared to 2009. ‘Spirit of Wipro’ values. l The top-rated engagement drivers of EPS 2011 were Diversity, Team, Social l Every year, all Wipro employees undertake an hour-long online training module and Responsibility, Customer Focus andValues. certification, to renew their understanding of the COBCE, which includes specific l Based on the feedback, we have identified action areas and are orchestrating the clauses prohibiting child labour, forced labour, discrimination, fraud and corruption. implementation and communication of the same. l Grievances related to COBCE violations are addressed through the Ombuds process l We also launched the EPS Pulse Survey in Jan 2013, to gauge current engagement and specific complaints pertaining to sexual harassment are referred to the levels, progress made since 2011 and identify areas where action is required. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Council, consisting of senior women and men executives from across business divisions and geographies. Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 047 The survey recorded overall positive engagement levels, consistent in comparison l It is a 120+ member representative group managed by Wiproites to voice employee with EPS 2011 results. suggestions and recommendations to improve company policies and processes. l During 2012-13, 1936 suggestions were received from employees, approximately 50% Wipro BPO Engagement Index of which were on themes relating to HR, Hiring,Training and People Processes. Wipro BPO launched the Engagement Index (EI) in 2010,internalized as an integral l The implementation team has also led specific improvement projects such as a revamp responsibility of people managers to enhance engagement effectiveness across of the performance management system and family inclusivity. operations. The index measures performance vis-à-vis targets, including engagement targets for In this section, we provide an overview of the profile of our sustainability report for engagement and retention of talent, reward and recognition and fun-at-work and derives 2012-13; the profile provides the anchoring context in terms of coverage and scope for a score for each manager. the report itself. A key topic discussed in this section is Wipro’s Materiality approach that helps determine the priorities of our sustainability programme and the corresponding Employee Advocacy Group disclosures. l The Employee Advocacy Group (EAG) was formed in 2011, with the twin objectives of channelizing feedback on existing policies and practices, and also reviewing new In the latter part of this section, we articulate our approach to report assurance, a key policies before launch, wherever feasible. determinant of the quality and transparency of any report. Employee Advocacy Group Employee Advocacy Group Suggestions – Function Wise Status of Suggestions 4.11% 4% 8.85% 13% HR, Recruitment, Training 24.58% Facilities & Security Pending with EAG 13% Information Systems & Closed via Clarification 50% Related functions* Work-In-Progress Business Operations & Related functions** Implemented Finance, Marketing, Quality 62.45% 20% * Information Systems, Infrastructure Management Group, Information Risk Management and Policy Compliance ** Business Operations,Workforce Management Group and Overseas Operations Cell Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 048 Freedom of Association Comprehensive Benefits We respect employees' right to freedom of association with trade unions.A reflection of Wipro Benefits focuses on providing a comprehensive benefits package that caters to the work culture is that there are no registered employee trade unions in India across IT every reasonable need of an individual. The key advantages of this package are: businesses. l Works as a safety net against financial impact of major life events Overseas, less than 1% of our employees in the IT business, from Australia, Poland, l Provides a variety of tax managing options Romania, Brazil, France & Denmark, are part of registered trade unions and collective l Offers opportunities to enhance the basic medical benefits package to address Bargaining Agreement exists with trade unions in Finland & Brazil.We also have Work individual specific benefits and provides for its continuity upon retirement Councils in France and Germany. l Is dynamic and innovative to meet the changing needs of the Company and Wiproites The HR function meets these groups on an on-going monthly/quarterly basis, to consult l Mirrors the latest offerings in the industry on key aspects such as compensation and salary revision, variable pay, work processes and l Reflects principles of sound regulatory compliance at all times structural changes. Policies for Retaining Employees Social Media Retainership is a flexible employment offering, opted for by specialists, consultants and To build a collaborative culture, connect geographically displaced teams, preserve and freelance experts, mutually beneficial to the individual and organization and formalized by share knowledge, we launched myWiproWorld as a social networking space where legally valid contracts. over 1 lakh employees and 3000 active communities share thoughts, upload photos, and network with others. Channel W is another informative portal with a host of content, Retainer terms and conditions include mandatory benefits such as Provident Fund and created in-house, sourced and contributed by employees. Wipro’s knowledge portal, paid leave, travel and relocation reimbursements for those in specialized roles involving Knet, provides access to business critical knowledge by connecting employees to the travel, as well as a medical insurance package that covers hospitalization, life insurance and relevant content through knowledge repositories, as well as by facilitating employee accident insurance. collaboration. Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 049 Employee Health and Well-being Mitr Wipro’s Counselling 2012-13 Highlights Programme Completes 10 Years l Started in 2003 as an in-house counselling initiative for Wiproites, Mitr is Wipro’s Employee Assistance Wellness Week including free health FIT FOR LIFE Programme (EAP) for emotional check-ups, contests, awareness events etc. WELLNESS counselling as well as specialist legal PROGRAMME Parents-to-Be Programme for expecting and financial advice in India. 3-month weight loss programme with Wiproite parents/mothers l Available 24X7 at all locations, Mitr personalized advice opened up for internal Wiproite volunteers in 2010. l In 2013, Mitr celebrated its 10 year Self Defence and awareness Emergency response trainings for security WORKPLACE anniversary with the focus primarily sessions for women SAFETY on creating awareness through Fire Safety Week, fire drills and evacuation drills various channels. Cab services for female Interactive Global Security Group intranet employees portal for employees AMBULANCES AND 22 ISO 14001-certified locations 24x7 I am very proud to be a Mitr. ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES FSSAI Regulations compliance for Occupational Health Centres What makes us stand apart is that Food Safety most of the Mitrs are Wipro 22 Occupational Health Centres employees who have volunteered to across locations help their colleagues over and above Women’s Health & Safety events their regular busy schedules. This is truly commendable. I also appreciate the fact that we maintain complete confidentiality and are not under any 500 kids attended New crèche pressure from the organization to Weekend Programmes in Pune office in share any confidential information of GLOBAL / Feb 2013 any employee. NATIONAL DAYS i.e. EARTH DAY From a Mitr Counselor Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 050 Wipro BPO’s Work-from-home Initiative l E-learning modules are made accessible and inclusive; Sign language interpreters and In sync with the needs of its employees,Wipro BPO has introduced “Work from Home” accessible technological assistance are also available. policy for specific roles* to provide employees greater flexibility when they are unable to attend office due to personal/medical exigencies of self or family members by extending Wipro Wins Accolades the option to work from home up to 3 times a month. for Diversity & Inclusion The policy has been welcomed by the employees and is seen as a positive l #1 Slot Winner of American Diversity Council award – 2012 change by many l Women Leadership and Innovation Award -2012 * excludes employees in client facing and floor production roles. l 2nd place in best employer for diversity & inclusion by Great Diversity and Inclusion – Scaling New Heights Places to Work Diversity is a strong cultural driver for the organization.This is reflected in our Employee l Won the coveted national award as Best Employer for inclusion Perception Survey scores, in which Diversity features as one of the top levers that impacts of persons with disabilities by the Ministry of Social Justice 2012 engagement. Diversity awareness is now a mandatory e-learning module and also a key component of new employee assimilation. In our Sustainability journey, we have crossed several milestones; more Women of Wipro Enabling Gender Inclusivity importantly, we have identified many more milestones for the future. These milestones ‘Women of Wipro’ is Wipro’s Gender Diversity framework that has spearheaded several form part of our vision of the role that Wipro should play in shaping a sustainable and programmes to enhance capabilities, and to enable the retention of talented female inclusive world. employees. We aspire to create a sensitive organization where men and women alike can Azim Premji flourish and grow in their careers with a holistic approach towards performance Chairman, Wipro Ltd. and work. Diversity and Inclusion Enablers ‘Women of Wipro’ programmes are designed around three themes, aligned with the life-stages of an individual: l Governance: Wipro’s Sustainability Council comprising the Chief Sustainability Officer and CEOs closely follows the Diversity & Inclusion charter’s direction l Exposure Programmes: Designed to build perspectives and fuel and progress by reviewing key metrics and initiatives at council meetings. career aspirations in the early stages of one’s career. This includes l Recruitment: Enabling inclusive hiring via special Inclusive Interviewer Certification structured job rotations and networking opportunities, as well as programmes; focused recruitment drives, creating inclusive JDs. interactions with eminent women leaders from across the industry, l Engagement: Chat sessions with people functions, interactions with industry through the Women of Wipro Speaker Series. experts, leadership engagement, with special focus on female employees and l Flexibility Initiatives: Designed to support female employees in persons with disability. Creating accessible,WCAG2.0 guidelines-compliant the middle stages of their careers through flexible working, IS applications and publishing a reasonable accommodation policy. providing Extended Maternity Leave and support programmes for l Roles:Talent management focused on creating inclusive career opportunities new mothers. and talent retention across all employee groups. Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 051 Empowerment Programmes At the close of 2012-13, there were over 9000 partner employees from over 75 partners, l Women in Leadership workshops to identify and address issues and challenges faced deployed in GIS projects across India. Almost 60% of this workforce is deployed on basic by successful career women. IT management skills such as desktop support, helpdesk and call management, and l Closed-room discussions with organizational leaders through ‘Lunch and provides Level 1 domain support to higher levels of IT Infrastructure support. This model Learn Sessions.’ brings with it the following unique challenges which are being addressed through the l “Mentoring for Success” programme for high-potential women in middle Partner Employee Engagement initiative established in May 2010: management. In 2012-13, 100 high potential women from middle management i) Clients express concern about uniform quality of services and network security participated in mentoring conversations, with mentors in General Manager and ii) Contract workforce does not exhibit similar levels of engagement as Vice President roles. permanent staff iii) Employees not fully engaged Persons with Disabilities Programme l Our Persons with Disability framework focuses on six key themes of Policy,Accessible In the last 3+ years, the initiative has progressed beyond basic compliance; today, partner Infrastructure, Accessible Information Systems, Recruitment,Training and Awareness. employee engagement is a comprehensive talent management offering, which includes: l As on 30th September 2013 we had 457 persons voluntarily declaring their disability l Induction sessions covering the Spirit of Wipro, COBCE, security policies and via Self Identification form, thus ensuring complete transparency. operational policies. l Over 87 of our intranet applications and Wipro.com website, supported by a l Site-o-Meter, an engagement survey carried out twice a year at each customer site specially trained team of engineers and subject matter experts, are now accessible, where employees are deployed. and comply with the WCAG2.0 guidelines. l An Appreciation framework, launched to enable employee recognition, along with l Accessible infrastructure at our campuses in addition to technology assistance. monthly, quarterly and annual awards. l In 2011-12, we launched ‘Winclusive’, an employee resource group, to engage with and l Educating front line managers on partner employee policies and engagement, through assist persons with disability which has now evolved into a global online community training sessions and a separate Partner Employee Engagement Handbook. that provides on-demand support and information to persons with disability, l Revamped career framework for partner employees taking a wider coverage of roles anytime, anywhere. across all technologies and lines of business. l During 2012-13, around 55,000 employees were sensitized on Diversity and Inclusion via an online training module. Career Development Workforce capability and performance enhancement are fundamental drivers of our We have always been in the forefront of promoting equality. It is imperative that business. Our training and development initiatives span technical, domain, organizations prove to be equal opportunity employers both in spirit and practice. At process and behavioral training, and basic skill building for campus hires, Wipro, we make sure there is no bias whatsoever. And this helps us do business better. middle management capability building and leadership building across levels. T.K Kurien CEO, Wipro Ltd. Employees can access job descriptions for various roles, assess their own readiness for a role and set action plans for specific roles through the Responsible People Supply Chain Governance Career Hub, hosted on the company intranet portal. The Global Infrastructure Services (GIS) India is a unit that operates on a talent intensive Every employee has an Individual Learning Plan, created at the time of business model, providing services to India-based clients with offices across various cities. the annual performance appraisal, and fulfilled through e-learning Wipro Sustainability Employees and Sustainability at Report 2012-13 the Workplace 052 modules with over 18,000 titles, that enable behavioral and leadership Growth Centre, launched in 2010, is a development centre aimed at assessing and competency building. developing programme managers. Learning & Development Landscape Leadership Training @ Wipro consists of lifecycle training as well as a consortium-based We provide learning pathways to our employees through on-boarding programmes, approach for building global leaders. Every year, Wipro leaders across middle, senior and leadership development programme, and industry-centred cutting edge technology and top management receive 360-degree feedback on the Wipro Leaders’ Qualities (WLQs), domain programmes to prepare people to perform better, manage their transitions into which forms the basis for leadership development initiatives. new roles and help in their overall career development. During FY 2012-13, over 10,000 programmes were delivered across the organization. Entry Level Training Programmes groom new employees into project-ready professionals armed with basic technical, professional and social skills through the 68-day structured Wipro’s Rural BPO at Manjakkudi – An Update flagship programmes at Wipro Academy of Software Excellence (WASE) and the Wipro l Our first rural BPO delivery centre at Manjakkudi, a village in Tamil Nadu, Software Technology Academy (WiSTA) Programme. southern India, has witnessed an unprecedented growth of nearly 150%, since its inception in 2011, servicing one of our largest U.S. based clients. The WASE programme consists of an 8-semester (four years) offcampus collaborative MS Programme with the Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS) Pilani-Rajasthan, l Today, the center’s 150 member team, which is the most satisfied India, while the WiSTA programme is a work-integrated M.S. programme in Information employee group of Wipro, also extends to back-office support for Technology for science graduates with non-mathematics disciplines in collaboration with internal operations. VIT University,Vellore (Tamil Nadu). l The team’s engagement score (83%) last year was the highest across all 4265 new entrants to the teams in Wipro as reflected in the positive feedback that it frequently WASE programme in 2012-13 receives from the customers. 574 new entrants into the l In September 2013, the centre organized its first ‘Spirit of Wipro’ run with WiSTA programme in 2012-13 an unmatched energy from across all employee segments, including female employees that constitute 40%50% of the team’s strength. The Unified Competency Framework gives a competitive edge to our business by identifying the technical competency needs of people and businesses, assessing gaps and enabling competency development for employees. It also enables a steady pool of competent engineers mapped to advanced assessments each year, linked to the annual performance appraisal of each employee. Project managers have to undergo the PLCP (Project Lead Certificate Programme) and the PMCP (Project Manager Certificate Programme) designed to provide adequate technical, managerial skills and trainings. The ACE (Architect Career Essentials) was launched in October 2011, providing a transparent and structured approach towards specialist career development to build skill levels for senior architects and enterprise architects. Edward Osborne ‘E. O.’ Wilson twice winner of the Pulitzer Prize, biologist, researcher, theorist, naturalist and author. Wilson is rightly known as the Father of Sociobiology. His deep knowledge and regard for nature is otherwise referred to as biophilia the diametric opposite of a phobia. After a childhood accident that left him partially visually challenged, he was fascinated by the insect world. His interest led him to study the behavior of insects, primarily ants. Wilson made fascinating discoveries which proved that even the tiniest form of life is worthy of courtesy and respect, as much as human beings. Future of life In his book ‘Future of Life’, Wilson dissects human behavior that is increasingly the reason for the destruction of natural habitats resulting in some species becoming E O Wilson entirely extinct. Few realize that with the destruction of one ecosystem there will be a resulting impact on the others as well. While the rate of habitat destruction and species loss is alarming, Wilson believes that humankind can still halt this massacre of nature. He provides a plan where students of science are the leaders in the effort to save the 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 integrity of this magnificent planet and the life it harbors. Excerpt from the book Have you ever wondered how we will be remembered a thousand years The issue, like all great decisions, is moral. Science and technology are what from now, when we are as remote as Charlemagne? Many would be satisfied we can do; morality is what we agree we should or should not do. with a list that includes the following: techno-scientific revolution continued, The creature at your feet dismissed as a bug or a weed is a creation in and of globalized, and unstoppable computer capacity approaching that of the human itself. It has a name, a million-year history, and a place in the world. Its brain: robotic auxiliaries proliferating cells rebuilt from molecules: space genome adapts it to a special niche in an ecosystem. The ethical substantiated colonized: population growth slackening: the world democratized: by close examination of its biology is that the life forms around us are too international trade accelerated: people better fed and healthier than ever old, too complex, and potentially too useful to be carelessly discarded. before: life span stretched: religion holding firm. To summarize: a sense of genetic unity, kinship, and deep history are among In this buoyant vision of the twenty-first century: what might we have the values that bond us to the living environment. They are survival overlooked about our place in history? What are we neglecting and at risk mechanisms for ourselves and our species. To conserve biological diversity of forever losing? The answer most likely in the year 3000 is: much of the rest of is an investment in immortality. life, and part of what it means to be a human being. A few technophiles, I expect, will beg to differ. What, after all, in the long term does it mean to be human? We have travelled this far; we will go on. As to the rest of life, they continue, we should be able to immerse fertilized eggs and clonable tissues of endangered species in liquid nitrogen and use them later to rebuild the destroyed ecosystems. Even that may not be necessary: in time entirely new species and ecosystems, better suited to human needs. Another reason exists not to take the gamble, not to let the natural world slip away. Suppose, for the sake of argument, that new species can be engineered and stable ecosystems built from them. With that distant potential in mind, should we go ahead, and for short-term gain, allow the original species and ecosystems to slip away? Yes? Erase Earth’s living history? Then also burn the libraries and art galleries, make cordwood of the musical instruments, pulp the musical scores, erase Shakespeare, Beethoven, and Goethe, and the Beatles too, because all these or at least fairly good substitutes can be re-created. SECTION 5C ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY AT WIPRO This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 056 Ecological sustainability is at the heart of our core focus areas and is built on five pillars: Energy & GHG Reduction Energy efficiency and GHG mitigation, Water efficiency and responsible use, Waste 3.0 GHG Intensity (Target Vs Actual) management, Biodiversity and Product Responsibility. Scope of Reporting 2.5 2.42 India: 70 locations comprising of 28 owned and 42 leased facilities of Wipro Technologies, 2.10 Wipro Infotech and Wipro BPO. 2.0 1,90 Overseas: 83 locations, including 8 customer datacentres.All the Wipro overseas offices 2.42 1.70 operate out of leased facilities – we have energy consumption data available for 77% of the facilities by seat capacity while for 23% we have used extrapolations based on assumptions 1.5 2.00 1.30 to arrive at best estimates. 1.85 The uncertainty due to these extrapolations is estimated to be less than 1%. 1.0 We have only reported energy consumption from purchased electricity for overseas offices. 0.5 Environmental Management Systems We have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 standard for more than a decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental Management System (EMS). 22 of 0 our campus sites in India & 2 leased sites in Australia are certified to the standards of ISO 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 14001:2004 and this standard has been followed for more than a decade as part of our Actual Target Environmental Management System (EMS). Employee count calculation basis. Goal(s) EMS Certification: By Employee Occupancy To reduce the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG intensity of Wipro’s operations by 45% from 2.42 MT per employee in 2010-11 to 1.3 MT per employee by 9% 2014-15 in all of our office space facilities. 10% This translates into a net reduction of around 60,000 tons assuming a similar GHG intensity in 2014-15 as in the baseline year. 5% For Scope 3 emissions, while we have a strong baseline measurement in place; 76% Certified Locations we are in the process of expanding the sources to be included under this Due for Certification Scope as per the new GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.We will complete this exercise by the end of 2013 and will Leased Offices simultaneously establish the corresponding goals for reduction. Client Offices Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 057 As detailed earlier in the goals section, the intensity metrics provided in this section are level, the comparative figures were 255 units for 11-12 and 239 units for 12-13, registering only for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions pertaining to our campus facilities/office spaces a 6.3 % improvement. providing business IT services.This contributes to nearly 83 % of our overall Scope 1 and Over the past year, our GHG emission intensity improved by nearly 9.7 % when measured Scope 2 emissions footprint. on a per employee basis and by about 2.7 % on a per sq.ft. basis. In India, energy consumption per employee showed a 4.5 % decrease over the previous The chart below illustrates this. year, from 258 units in 11-12 to 246 units per employee per month in 12-13. At a global Office Energy Intensity GHG Emissions Intensity 300 3.0 275 270 267 258 CO2 eq. Tons Per Employee Per Annum 255 250 246 2.5 239 2.39 2.36 225 200 1.98 1.95 2.0 Kwh/Emp/Month 1.83 1.76 175 150 1.5 125 100 1.0 75 50 0.5 25 0 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 India Global India Global The 9.7 % reduction in emissions intensity on per employee basis for global office space Retrofit of older equipment with more energy-efficient equipment l as compared to 2011-12 is driven by these key measures: Consolidation of operations accompanied by a transition from leased to owned l 1. Energy efficiency measures contributed to 4.5 % decrease in energy intensity per facilities with the resulting increase in overall utilization of office space employee.This is due to Higher quality of maintenance operations l Decentralization of operation controls for select areas and operations like lights l 2. Increase in share of renewable energy from 17% to 19% of the total energy and lifts, installation of timer controls to avoid unnecessary usage consumption by the office. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 058 Emissions Scope 1, 2 & 3 Global 238189 214440 250000 225000 202371 200000 175000 150000 125000 98093 99857 98347 90159 91446 100000 78928 42105 75000 50000 26122 30907 25000 20000 15000 9088 10000 2277 3515 3052 5000 2352 2026 1573 2000 1500 1000 674 632 1008 500 364 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Scope 1 Generated Electricity Fuel (LPG & Coal) Fugitive Emissions (HFC, PFC) Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Scope 3 Waste Employee Commute Business Travel Downstream Logistics Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 059 Starting 2012-13, we have started collating and reporting emissions data for the following Energy Efficiency Measures Scope 3 heads for our India operations. Over the preceding five year period, we have implemented a variety of energy efficiency Scope 3 Category Tons (CO2 equivalent) measures. l Green Buildings: We were one of the early adopters of Green Building Design, with Upstream logistics 3646 19 of our current buildings certified by the international LEED standard (Silver, Gold, Use of sold products (in 5 year period) 272273 and Platinum). End of life treatment of sold products 2.47 (previous year : 2.60) l Server virtualization: Since 2007, we have decommissioned old physical servers and Purchased goods and services 43483 replaced the processing capacity with virtualization technology on a fewer number of servers. Across the past three years, the contribution of electricity-related emissions has l As of March 2013, we have 1900 virtual servers running on 209 physical servers remained consistent at around 55% of our total GHG emissions, with the rest mainly from contributing to an energy savings of approximately 7.9 million units annually. business travel (~21%) and employee commuting (~20%). This assumes a saving of 0.75 KW/hour for every physical server avoided.This, we believe, Our GHG mitigation programme is a conservative estimate considering that many servers run for 7 days a week and the power rating ranges from 0.75 KW to 1 KW (we have considered a lower power rating Our five year GHG mitigation strategy consists of three key elements – Energy Efficiency, for the savings estimate calculation). Renewable Energy (RE) Purchase and Captive RE; of this, strategic RE procurement will contribute the maximum to GHG emission reductions. l Remote collaboration and mobile productivity enablers: Over the years, we have launched a number of remote collaboration and workstation productivity solutions, , In 2012-13 , the mitigation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions has broadly followed the resulting in a 30% increase in the use of web meeting technologies (like WebEx) over strategy articulated above: the past two years,and GHG emissions savings of over 36,000 tons. Mitigation Programmes Renewable Energy Strategic Procurement For the reporting period of 2012-13, we procured 63 million units of renewable energy through PPAs (Power Purchase Agreements) with private producers, which amounted to approximately 19% of our total office space energy consumption. 19% Our five year plan (2009-10 to 2014-15) is to scale-up the sourcing of Renewable Energy 2% to 161 million units from clean power technologies, a more than six times increase. l At the current level of Renewable Energy usage, the total estimated reduction in GHG 79% emissions was of the order of 47790 Metric Tons of CO2-eq for 2012-13. There is increasing focus on putting in place an enabling regulatory and infrastructure environment to increase the share of direct PPAs in the space of renewable energy. Renewable Energy Procurement l Use of captive renewable energy in our operations: The two pilot installations of solar Renewable Energy Generation PV of 100 KW each in our Kolkata and Chennai campuses combined with our (incl. Solar Water Heating) extensive use of solar water heaters in our guest blocks and cafeterias have resulted in accumulated savings of 1.6 million units of purchased electricity. Energy Efficiency Measures Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 060 l This includes 1332 MWh per year saved by solar thermal heating and 280 MWh per A summary of the above GHG mitigation programmes, excluding direct commute and year by solar PV installations. travel reduction, is provided below. Proposed Plan for the coming year Estimated GHG savings in the reporting period in Tons CO2 l Strategic investment in sustainable power procurement in the long run to mitigate the risks associated with the growing energy crisis and the volatility of the energy market. l A study commissioned with an external consultant to map the consumption and Mitigation Programmes expected growth pattern for each of our locations in India, and to identify a suitable Renewable Energy Procurement medium for long term energy sourcing. The recommendations will be implemented from FY 2013-14. Renewable Energy Generation 36,000 (inch Solar Water Heating) BusinessTravel and Commute 47,790 Virtualization l The IT services outsourcing model requires frequent travel to customer locations, Energy Efficiency Measures contributing to around 20% of our overall emissions footprint. Policies on the usage of different modes of travel, need-based travel approval and a shift towards processes Travel Substitution initiatives (Live meeting, enabling travel planning by employees are some of the cost and process optimization 11,657 Virtual conferencing) measures implemented over past few years. l BusinessTravel 6,252 1,290 Multiple measures like virtual conferencing, targeted reductions etc. – have resulted in a reduction of travel intensity of 5% compounded over the last two years from an Water Efficiency average of 5791 km per employee per annum (PEPA) to 5221 km PEPA on a consistent basis. At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated goals are therefore predicated on these l Commute three dimensions. Employees have various choices for commuting in addition to company arranged transport (30-35%), employees utilize public transport (40-45%), and own vehicles Goal(s) (the balance). l To improve water efficiency (Freshwater use per employee) l Over the past few years, we have taken steps to facilitate a shift towards access to by 5% year on year public transport for employees (buses, commuter trains), encouraging cycling to work l Responsible Sourcing To ensure responsible water sourcing in proximate (through an active cycling community in the organization) and carpooling. communities, especially in areas prone to water scarcity l Our annual transport survey launched last year and taken by 6000 people over the l Recognizing water availability as a business risk, to proactively assess and past 3 years, provides insights into modes of transport, distance traversed and plan for water security of the organization in synchronization with the qualitative feedback on improving services across our locations. above goals l IT lead Soft infrastructure enablers like anytime direct connectivity to office intranet applications, secure personal device connectivity through the BYOD initiative (Bring Water Sourcing: Ground water, municipal water supplies and private purchase Your Own Devices) are steps in enabling more flexible work place options. comprise nearly 99% of the total fresh water consumption. Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 061 Salient Water Metrics The per l employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.56 m3 per month, an 8.4 % reduction when compared with 1.71 m3 in year 2011-12. We recycle 839389 m3 of water in 24 of our major locations, (1025781 for l Water 23 locations in 2010-11) using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), which represents Efficiency 30% (33% in 2011-12) of the total water consumed.The percentage of this recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted is around 42%. 42 of our 70 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas where waste water is discharged to CSTPs (Common Sewage Water Water Treatment Plants) and to the municipal sewerage systems.We take care Security Responsibility not to discharge waste water into any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead directly to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water.The treated water from our sewage treatment plants is tested and conforms to the parameters specified by the respective local pollution control boards. We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are recognized to be Our two computer factories at Kotdwar and Pondicherry are particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a support source for equipped with effluent treatment plants for processing and endangered species. None of our operations impact any nationally or internationally treating effluents. designated water conservation area. Below is a chart that depicts the relative water consumption compared to the water that is being recycled. We have launched a programme in the latter part of 2012 with the aim to minimize freshwater consumption by 20% over the following two years through an Water Consumed vs. Water Recycled (in kl) integrated approach: 2500000 i) I m p l e m e n t S t a n d a r d m e t e r i n g infrastructure and procedures across campuses 2000000 2,038,839.01 1,970,942.73 Water 1,905,827.11 ii) Demand side optimization (improving efficiency through flow Consumption 1500000 restrictors across campuses and arresting leakages) KL Water 1000000 Recycled Improving recycling levels through higher grade treatment technologies like 1025781 ultra-filtration integrating rain water harvesting into the consumption-side water cycle of 872880 839,388.6 500000 the campus. 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 062 1. In 2012-13, in association with a reputed water expert group, we completed an l 92% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both in-house extensive environmental and social study of the water cycle at two of our large recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. campuses and the proximate community. l In 2012-13, we have initiated a comprehensive and independent waste assessment 2. In October 2012, the framework was presented and deliberated among a audit across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams. The study is selected group of national water experts, social scientists, academia and in progress and considering the informal nature of the downstream waste handling representatives from industry body and city water supply authority. sector we expect significant scope for improvement in governance and traceability of waste streams. 3. Considering the increasing role and importance of groundwater management both in the urban and rural context, we plan to start a long-term participatory In the reporting period, there were no instances of environmental fines imposed or ground water aquifer management programme in 2013.The ‘Responsible Water negative consequences due to our operations. Use Framework’ looks at the vulnerability of water sources due to design, Categories of disposal sourcing and conveyance. It will allow locations to look at source, demand, rainfall endowment and entitlement as community stakeholders aspects l Reuse : Largely paper and cardboard, used for making recycled paper as a whole and inform integrated responses.We plan to roll out this l Safe-disposal: Categorized and managed internally framework implementation across our campuses in 2013-14. l Recycle: Handled by authorized vendors l Incineration: Biomedical waste, DG filters and oil soaked cotton are scientifically Pollution and Waste Management incinerated by authorized vendors Air and water pollution pose serious threats to community health and welfare. Industry, l Landfill: Largely mixed solid waste; 60% of which is recycled by vendors. which is one of the principal sources of pollution, bears special responsibility for effective mitigation and minimization. Our goal in this regard goes beyond the organizational fence to what happens downstream all the way to the landfill. Waste Disposal Methods Goal(s) 0.1% l To ensure by 2014 that not more than 5% of all generated waste ends up 7.9% in landfills. 13.0% The waste management programme will be reviewed comprehensively in 16.1% 2013-14 with respect to the progress so far and the improvement areas identified through supply chain waste audits.We will put in place more granular waste goals for the next 5 year period. Reuse 62.8% l Our waste management strategies are centred around either i) recycling the waste for Safe Disposal further use or ii) arranging for safe disposal. Recycle l We follow robust processes of segregating waste into organic waste, inorganic-waste, Landfilled hazardous waste, packaging waste, bio medical waste and so on, which is then recycled either in-house or through outsourced vendor arrangements. Incineration Wipro Sustainability Ecological Sustainability Report 2012-13 at Wipro 063 Air Emissions are acutely conscious of our responsibility on this front and have set for ourselves the l We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 44 of our locations, this following goals: helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), l To convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones by 2015. oxides of Sulphur (SOx) and particulate matter. l All new campuses will incorporate biodiversity principles as an integral part of l A scheduled PPM (Planned Preventive Maintenance) is in place for carrying the their design maintenance of the DG sets to check the efficiency of the DG sets. Our first biodiversity project was initiated in 2010-11 at our Electronic City campus in Controlled Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS): The quantity of partnership with ATREE, a globally renowned biodiversity institution. The first phase of refrigerants, including 3.6 tons of R-22 in 2012-13 was 5.3 metric tons for 34 locations. the project – the butterfly park is completed, and includes stand out art work commissioned specially for this project. Electronic Waste l Electronic-waste includes electronic peripherals and parts of replaced electronic The project started with an assessment of the existing plant, birds, butterflies, insects, components.The computing waste is handled centrally under the ‘Computing E-waste small mammals and other taxa in the campus and recommendations to increase the Take Back programme’ by a business division. biodiversity of locally adapted species. This was also integrated with better water efficiency and conservation, nutrient recycling, the reduction of the cooling needs of some l Our take-back mechanism which started in 2007, now has 20 collection centers buildings and an improvement in the overall aesthetics of the campus. The project is spread across the country for collection of end-of-life desktops and laptops. perhaps the first integrated effort of its nature in India. l During FY12-13, the total end of life e-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 247 tons. The project area is divided into four themed parts: Key areas of focus in Waste Management for the coming year l Butterfly Court: Garden showcasing native Integrated Approach l To redesign and incorporate changes in our programme based on the new E-Waste towards Campus Sustainability butterfly host and nectar plants Management and Handling Rule 2012 and its impact on our current processes. l Deccan: Based on the predominant geology l Work with our partners and vendors in driving better practices and behaviors keeping of south India uses rocks and natural water in mind both human and ecological impact of any changes. body designs l Medicinal Circuit: Herbal garden classified l Continual assessment of operational risks to the BIODIVERSITY by types of healing i.e. heart and circulation, environment and apply the precautionary principle in TOWARDS women’s ailments. our approach to get insights and plan – for example, SUSTAINABILITY the responsible water use study and waste life cycle l Wetland Park: Water management and an audits are to be completed in 2012-13. ecosystem sustaining a variety of fish, water WATER CARBON birds, insects and amphibians. Biodiversity in Our Campuses Building employee connect through expert talks, workshops, field and visit to community Biodiversity or the plurality of species is crucial to human research centres in forests, is a critical aspect of the programme. The project is perhaps well-being. We believe therefore that the business sector the first integrated effort of its nature in India. must get involved much more in issues of biodiversity. As an organization with large campuses in urban settings, we WALDEN HENRY DAVID THOREAU Henry David Thoreau was 28 when he built, by hand, the cabin by Walden Pond. Having graduated from Harvard, he tried his hand at varied interests. In 1845, he answered the call of the woods, and nature became his religion thereafter. He emerged from the cabin in 1847, a literary writer, thinker & prophet the Thoreau known to history. Strongly influenced by the Transcendentalist movement, Thoreau iconized America's return to nature movement. He was also a philosopher naturalist, a skilled engineer, botanist, surveyor and inventor. He created the modern American pencil by introducing clay into the manufacture of graphite (pencil lead). Simple living and economic and social self-reliance form the central theme of Thoreau's literary classic, Walden. Finding contentment in solitude, entertainment in the laugh of the loon and the march of the ants, Thoreau revels in the absence of the trappings of excessiveness. He sets to prove that he can support himself through his own labor, producing more than he consumes and works to produce a profit. Finally, when everything is added up, he is a giver rather than a taker in the game of life. 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 Excerpt from the book I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the An honest man has hardly need to count more than his ten fingers, or in extreme essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, cases he may add his ten toes, and lump the rest. 'Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity' when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was I say. Let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb nail. quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms so sturdily and Spartan like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad and quicksands and thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, that a man has swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest to live, if he would not founder and go to the bottom and not make his port terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine at all, by dead reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or it were sublime to Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it be necessary eat but one; know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my instead of a hundred dishes, five; and reduce other things in proportion. next excursion. Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to Still we live meanly, like ants; though the fable tells us that we were long ago be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and changed into men; like Pygmies we fight with cranes; it is so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow. As for work, error upon error, and clout upon clout, and our best we haven’t any of any consequence. virtue has for its occasion a superfluous and evitable wretchedness. Our life is frittered away by detail. This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon SECTION 5D CUSTOMER STEWARDSHIP This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Customer Report 2012-13 Stewardship 068 Management Approach Overview of Smart Grids’ Solution Space The increasing stress on natural resources – be it energy, water, raw material in the modern world has compelled businesses, governments and consumers to demand energy and resource-efficient products and services. Consulting: Strategy Project Management Vendor Selection, Advisory and We have, over the past five years, built a portfolio of leading IT enabled sustainability Solution Integration Implementation solutions for our customers. This can be explored in further detail below Overview of Sustainability IT Solutions Space Smart Grids IT for (Energy Sustainability and Utilities Operating Expertise Across Markets: Across the Space: Regulated and De-regulated Generation, Markets, Americas, Transmission & Distribution, IT Services Asia Pacific, Europe Retailing, Energy Trading etc. IT Products and Solutions Efficiency and Optimisation Dematerialisation Enterprise Smart Grids for Manufacturing, Green Solutions for Energy Energy and Retail, and Computing Customers in Management Utility Business Transportation Transportation, Manufacturing, Natural Resources (Oil and Gas), Retail Energy, Carbon and Analytics and Low Cost Sustainability Management Smart Infrastructure Wipro Sustainability Customer Report 2012-13 Stewardship 069 Overview of IT Solutions for Energy Intensive Sectors Highlights for 2012-13: EcoEnergy is the clean-tech business division of Wipro, providing intelligent, sustainable We have a suite of energy management solutions in the areas of energy infrastructure alternatives in energy generation, infrastructure and management.We leverage analytical management, carbon management and energy procurement services to drive efficiencies. insights obtained from energy data into energy efficient solutions to help our customers We also manage about 300 million sq. ft. of area in all, for some of the largest EMS reduce their energy-related cost. (Environment Management Systems) in the world, providing these services for marquee clients in categories like Retail, Buildings, Quick Service Restaurants, etc. Enterprise Energy Management Solutions Through its unique and integrated Managed Services model, Wipro Eco Energy targets Greening our Data Centers savings of up to 30% of normalized energy costs by reducing consumption, optimizing We are implementing targeted energy efficiency initiatives progressively at each data procurement and leveraging regulatory incentives. center in the US to improve upon older designs.A summary of the key initiatives are: l Efficient data center infrastructure Our service continuously measures, controls, optimizes and reports energy performance enabling our Energy Operations Center to sustain your energy performance. Eco l Efficient computing infrastructure Energy’s platform-led Managed Services approach utilizes its analytics engine to derive l Raised floor management and support systems design insights from real-time energy data from connected infrastructure for long-term energy Large scale retrofits for low energy efficiency infrastructure like these data centers are and operational efficiency strategies to help you reduce energy consumption and related capital expensive and hence our current focus is on driving incremental investments in costs across your enterprise. energy efficiency. Centralized Energy and Utilities (E&U Domain) Reduction in visibility energy enterprise We are one of the pioneers among the global IT services companies, in providing consumption dedicated focus to the Energy and Utilities (E&U) industry. wide energy Optimizing With more than a decade of experience, we were the first Indian IT services vendor to Predictive preventive analysis to provide System Integrator (SI) services to the E&U industry. maintenance reduce costs Wipro's non value labor The business unit helps customers increase efficiency of service delivery and asset Managed management, introduce smart solutions, and discover and integrate newer sources of Energy energy. We also help them digitize and automate operations, create collaborative work Enhanced Services troubleshooting Emissions & environments, reduce the cost of exploration & extraction and address the need for & shorter compliance sustainable practices, and developing compliance solutions in the areas of health, safety, reaction time reporting and security. Transportation and Logistics Enabling Increased enterprise/global l Our portfolio in the transportation sector involves joint collaboration with automation capabilities customers to provide solutions on route optimization and dematerialization of services. Wipro Sustainability Customer Report 2012-13 Stewardship 070 l A few examples are the e-freight work in association with IATA and route optimization work for a range of logistics service providers. An update on Wipro Green Computing The green computing program rests on the three pillars of Energy, Chemical and Waste Management. Energy Management – l All new products are Energy Star 5 enabled and all our laptop models are also complaint with India’s BEEV. 1.0. l Green Leaf, a power management solution is available for all our desktops. Chemical Management – During the year 2012-13, the components imported were 100% RoHS (Restriction on Hazardous Substances) compliant and components procured from local suppliers were 86.84% RoHS compliant, in adherence to the OSPAR list of chemicals.A significant portion of our desktops launched continue to be PVC and BFR-free. Waste Management – l Our take back mechanism which started in 2007 now has 20 collection centers across the country for collection of end of life desktops and laptops. l During FY12-13 the total end-of-life e-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 235 tons. l We plan to redesign and incorporate changes in our program based on the new E-Waste Management and Handling Rule 2012 and its impact on our current processes. Our commitment to responsible innovation in our green computing journey has been recognized by Greenpeace since 2009, and we have been rated the number one company in the India version of the Annual Green Electronics Rankings since 2009. We were also placed in the number one position globally in the 2012 Greenpeace Guide to Greener Electronics, ahead of larger industry players. We have also told our suppliers to avoid the sourcing of tin, tungsten and gold (minerals) from conflict zones. The assessment process is currently in progress, the output of which will help in understanding and helping eliminate conflict minerals from our manufacturing. TRAGEDY OF THE COMMONS GARRETT JAMES HARDIN Garrett Hardin: “We summarize the situation by saying: 'There is a shortage of food.' Why don't we say, 'There is a longage of people'?” AB.S. in zoology from the University of Chicago and a PhD in microbiology, Garrett Hardin is best known for his theories on the impact on the environment, by man in his role as procreator. Credited as the person who gave us ‘Hardin's First Law of Human Ecology’, he brought to fore the damage that innocent actions by individuals can inflict on the environment in his systematic interpretation of the Tragedy of Commons in a 1968 paper. The Tragedy of The Commons: “A managed commons, though it may have other defects, is not automatically subject to the tragic fate of the unmanaged commons.” The general principle of the tragedy of the commons is that individuals will exploit anything that is free in order to maximize their own advantage, but that this entails a cost to society as a whole. Hardin applied this principle to procreation people who procreate in large numbers are imposing a cost on society, which they themselves do not have to bear. “Freedom 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 to breed, he wrote, will bring ruin to all. Excerpt from the book Population, as Malthus said, naturally tends to grow geometrically, or, as we calories are used not only for what we call work in common speech; they would now say, exponentially. In a finite world this means that the per capita share are also required for all forms of enjoyment, from swimming and automobile of the world's goods must steadily decrease. Is ours a finite world? racing to playing music and writing poetry. If our goal is to maximize population it is obvious what we must do: We must make the work calories per person approach A fair defense can be put forward for the view that the world is infinite; or that as close to zero as possible. No gourmet meals, no vacations, no sports, no music, we do not know that it is not. But, in terms of the practical problems that we must no literature, no art... I think that everyone will grant, without argument or face in the next few generations with the foreseeable technology, it is clear that proof, that maximizing population does not maximize goods. we will greatly increase human misery if we do not, during the immediate future, assume that the world available to the terrestrial human population is finite. Space is no escape (2). A finite world can support only a finite population; therefore, population growth must eventually equal zero. (The case of perpetual wide fluctuations above and below zero is a trivial variant that need not be discussed.) When this condition is met, what will be the situation of mankind? To live, any organism must have a source of energy (for example, food). This energy is utilized for two purposes: mere maintenance and work. For man, maintenance of life requires about 1600 kilo calories a day ( maintenance calories ). Anything that he does over and above merely staying alive will be defined as work, and is supported by work calories which he takes in. Work SECTION 5E SUSTAINABILITY AND THE RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR 74 WIPRO AND RESPONSIBLE INVESTING 75 OUR ENGAGEMENT MODEL WITH THE INVESTOR COMMUNITY 75 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND VALUE ADD TO INVESTORS 76 WIPRO’S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Sustainability and Report 2012-13 The Responsible Investor 074 Management Approach Our engagement with responsible investment In recent times, companies are required to comply with an increasingly elaborate and We view the trend of responsible investment from two distinct angles: extensive set of statutory financial statement disclosures. The rationale offered by (i) as a catalyst for making the business sector more responsible and regulators for these requirements is that detailed reporting increases the transparency of (ii) as a driver of internal rigor, innovation and improvement in a company's operations. operations and governance.These disclosures accompanying financial statements present a true and fair view of the financial health and state of affairs of the reporting entity. Therefore, we have been a conscious and keen participant in multiple such disclosure frameworks; this has helped us continuously calibrate our sustainability program and In addition, there has also been a growing trend towards providing disclosures beyond enhance it through step changes. Our commitment is reflected in the recognition of our financial metrics, on topics such as human resources, industrial relations, environment, and leadership in various global ESG rating programs: product safety.These disclosures enable stakeholders to assess the impact of the business l Wipro has been a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World 2013 on the stakeholders and society at large, and thus, investors are increasingly incorporating the 4th year in a row and also part of the Emerging Markets Index for the 2nd ESG criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance) into their investment decision consecutive year – the only company from India to be part of both indices Wipro was frameworks. also included in ROBECO SAM's Annual Sustainability Yearbook (2013) for the third Over the last decade, this has manifested in at least four different ways as shown in the year running; we were awarded the Bronze Class recognition in the Technology sector, chart below. Regulators and governments have started mandating reporting and the only company from India with such a distinction. encouraging spending on ESG parameters. l Wipro was ranked first in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI India) 2013 with a score of 98/100, for the second consecutive year. The index is administered by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on behalf of 655 investors with l Example: The Dow l Example: Carbon assets of US$ 78 Trillion, this is the definite climate change disclosure framework. Jones Sustainability Disclosure Project Wipro was also included in the global CDP Supplier Performance Index 2013 in their Index (CDP), Oekom, first edition.This is a new list of companies from around the world who achieved an A Bloomberg in climate change performance. Our CDP responses can be viewed at ESG ESG www.cdproject.net indices of assessments l Rated 'Prime B+' and globally No.1 in the IT Sector by Oekom, a leading Euopean stock exchange by rating firms ESG rating agency Oekom's clients are reputable financial service companies, managing a total volume of EUR 520 billion on the basis of their sustainability research. l Wipro was selected by Ethisphere institute in their 2013 'World Most Ethical Companies' list, for the second consecutive year. The think tank has been publishing Principles of Custom Responsible assessment of the World’s most Ethical (WME) company rankings for the last seven years now by Investing sustainability reviewing hundreds of companies and evaluating applications utilizing its proprietary (PRI) risks methodology through in-depth research and multi-step analysis. l Many leading l Example: Trucost's Principle for Responsible Investment banks and FIs Environmental risk subscrobe to models for industry The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), developed by an international group of PRI sectors institutional investors under the umbrella of Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (PRII), reflect the increasing relevance of environmental, social and corporate Wipro Sustainability Sustainability and Report 2012-13 The Responsible Investor 075 governance issues to investment practices. In 2011, there were 915 investors as FY 2012-13 signatories to Wipro, and this number has increased to 1, 204 in 2013.The UNEP Finance Initiative and the UN Global compact are partnering with PRII in this initiative. Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Our engagement model with the investor community Investor Meetings 30 47 45 41 163 Investors are significant stakeholders at Wipro. We have multiple channels of Conferences Attended 8 10 3 6 27 communications to keep the investors informed about various development and events. Road shows Conducted 4 6 3 4 17 Communication through voluntary disclosures in financial statement has been the cornerstone of investor engagement. Analyst Day Conducted 1 1 The shareholding pattern in Wipro AGM Held 1 1 The table below shows the total number of shareholders consolidated in both domestic Press Releases 20 21 16 17 74 (India) and ADR holdings: 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Response to investors’ and shareholders’ concerns One of the measures of success in the investor relations & secretarial functions is having No. of shareholders 232,932 228,456 179,438 220,238 227,158 213,603 satisfied stakeholders. Our goal is to have zero pending complaints or queries at the end ADR holders 18,428 14,945 15,383 12,544 11,813 11,162 of any given period of time.The table below presents the number of complaints/ queries received and the number of queries responded to. Total shareholders 251,360 243,401 194,821 232,782 238,971 224,765 Description Nature Received Replied Pending Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road shows, in Non receipt of Securities Complaint 13 13 0 addition to hosting investors who visit us. Non receipt of Annual Reports Complaint 31 31 0 The figure below reflects the breadth of our engagement with investors. Correction / Revalidation of Breadth of Engagement Dividend Warrants Request 496 496 0 l Website l Annual General l Investor Road shows SEBI/ Stock Exchange Complaints Complaint 14 14 0 l Press Release Meeting l Meeting with Non Receipt of Dividend Warrant Complaint 234 234 0 l Quarterly Earning l EGM Individual Release l Board Independent Investors/Analysts Others Request 0 l Investor Presentation Directors l Investor Conference Total 788 788 0 l Annual Reports l Press Reports l Analyst Meet India l Financial Information l Feedback on Annual and US Our economic performance and value add to investors Report Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in the company. Our endeavour is to report fair and timely financial results and communicate Inform Listen Dialogue the business outlook, risks and opportunities. Wipro Sustainability Sustainability and Report 2012-13 The Responsible Investor 076 The Global Environment 12%.Verticals that had a traditionally strong IT-spend such as BFSI and manufacturing With significant volatility in global currency and interest rates, the overall macro recorded above-average growth. environment has been uncertain. . While USA’s Federal Reserve has deferred the l The direct employment provided by the IT Sector in FY 13 is expected to reach 3 timetable to taper quantitative easing, central banks of other countries have articulated million, an increase of 188,300 employees, while indirect job creation is estimated at policy responses. Businesses have responded to the uncertainty by driving cost 9.5 million. reductions and productivity increases, with technology as a key enabler. Wipro’s Financial Performance The Global IT Sector Wipro’s economic value-adds and distribution among its constituents are broadly l 2012 recorded steady growth for the technology and related services sector, with consistent in FY 11 when compared with FY 10. worldwide spending of USD 1.9 trillion, a growth of 4.8% over 2011. Global IT-BPO The dividend pay-out to the equity owners increased from 2% of revenue in FY 10 to 4% in spend is expected to grow between 5-6% in the next couple of years and global FY 11.This entire increase came from lower Economic Value retained in business. sourcing is expected to grow faster at 7-8%. Industry expertise and innovation is expected to drive future sourcing requirement. Wipro's economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly consistent l New areas of mobile, social, cloud and analytics are increasingly being seen as business in FY 12-13 when compared with FY 11-12. differentiators and provide opportunities for growth. Research & Development 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 expenditure in engineering saw a strong continued spend around technology Particulars Rs. in % Rs. in % Rs. in % convergence. Mn. Mn. Mn. The India IT Sector Revenue 271,437 100.0% 318,747 100.0% 374,256 100.0% l As a proportion of national GDP, the sector revenues have grown from 1.2% in FY 1998 to an estimated 8% in FY 2013. The aggregate revenue for the India IT-BPO Operating Cost 95,837 35.3% 113,813 35.7% 127,283 34.2% industry for FY 2013 is expected to cross USD 108 Billion.Aggregate IT software and Employee Wages 122,248 45.0% 148,350 46.5% 179,627 48.3% services revenue (excluding hardware) is estimated at USD 95 Billion. and Benefits l The industry currently accounts for almost 25% (FY 1998: <4%), of India’s total Payments to government exports (merchandise + services) and 58% of total services exports. The global ITBPO exports is expected to grow 5-6% in FY 2014 providing growth opportunities India 7,777 2.9% 12,995 4.1% 16,576 4.5% for the Indian IT-BPO industry. Others 3,895 1.4% 4,065 1.3% 5,314 1.4% l Domestic IT – BPO revenue (excluding hardware) is expected to grow at 14% to Payments to providers of Capital gross Rs. 1047 billion in FY 2013. It is expected to grow at 13-16% in FY 2014. Strong economic growth, rapid advancement in technology infrastructure, increasingly Interest 767 0.3% 937 0.3% 863 0.2% competitive Indian organizations, enhanced focus by government and emergence of Dividend 13,378 4.9% 14,836 4.7% 14,188 3.8% business models that help provide IT to new customer segments are key drivers for Economic Value Retained 27,535 10.1% 23,751 7.5% 30,405 8.2% increased technology adoption in India. l The industry has achieved penetration across several mature and emerging sectors. In FY 2013, growth was driven by healthcare, retail and utilities growing at an aggregate Wipro Sustainability Sustainability and Report 2012-13 The Responsible Investor 077 Profit After Tax as % of Revenues 2011-12 2012-13 Profit After Tax as % of Revenues 17.7% 17.5% Note: Effective March 31, 2013,Wipro Group completed the demerger of its consumer care and lighting, infrastructure engineering and other non-IT business segments. Consequent to the demerger, the financial position of Wipro Limited as at March 31, 2013 includes only the balances of the continuing IT business and are therefore strictly not comparable with the financial position of the previous year. Corresponding figures for previous year presented have been regrouped, where necessary, to conform to the current year presentation and classification. Financial assistance from the Government The India IT sector has been a leading generator of direct and indirect employment and foreign exchange as illustrated in the India IT sector overview and receives fiscal incentives from the government. Our benefits from the same have been illustrated below 2011 2012 2013* Benefit from income tax exemption (in INR. Mn) 11,085 10,501 11,077 Percentage of tax benefit to Profit Before Tax (PBT) 18% 15% 14% PBT 62,348 69,814 78,688 * Subsequent to demerger of non-IT business, this is only for IT business Cradle to William McDonough is a designer, advisor, author and thought leader. Michael Cradle Braungart, the co-author of Cradle to Cradle is a chemist. Together, they have articulated a simple, doable guide to a sustainable planet. They look at creating designs that are a beneficial, regenerative force that seeks to create ecological footprints to delight in, not lament. the idea being not merely minimizing negative impact on the environment, but maximizing positive impact. MICHAEL BRAUNGART Cradle to Cradle is a blueprint that shows how we can sustainably profit from growth, simply by having a conscience. In the book, the authors use a cherry tree as a narrative WILLIAM ANDREWS MCDONOUGH example of what 100% good looks like from bearing fruit, giving shade, restoring carbon, being a habitat for varied ecosystems, preventing soil erosion, and at the end it goes back to mulch the earth.The book compels designers to think how their products 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 can do the same good as a cherry tree. Excerpt from the book Consider the Cherry Tree Goal Thousands of blossoms create fruit for birds, humans, and other animals, in order To create a building that celebrates a range of cultural and natural pleasures sun, that one pit might eventually fall onto the ground, take root, and grow. Who would light, air, nature, even food in order to enhance the lives of the people who work look at the ground littered with cherry blossoms and complain, “How inefficient there. During construction, certain elements of the second building did cost a and wasteful.” The tree makes copious blossoms and fruit without depleting its little more. For example, windows that open are more expensive than windows environment. Once they fall on the ground, their materials decompose and break that do not. But the night times cooling strategy cuts down on the need for down into nutrients that nourish micro organisms, insects, plants, animals, and soil. air-conditioning during the day. Abundant day light diminishes the need for Although the tree actually makes more of its “product” than it needs for its own fluorescent light. Fresh air makes the indoor spaces more pleasurable, a perk for success in an ecosystem, this abundance has evolved (through millions of years of current employees and a lure to potential ones and thus an effect with economic as success and failure or, in business terms, R&D), to serve rich and well as aesthetic consequences. (Securing and supporting a talented and varied purposes. In fact, the tree’s fecundity nourishes just productive workforce is one of CFO’s primary goals, because the carrying about everything around it. cost of people-recruiting, employing, and retaining them – is a hundred times as great as the carrying cost of the average building). In its What might the human-built world look like if a every element, the building expresses the client’s and architect's vision cherry tree had produced it? of a life-centered community and environment. We know, because Bill’s Here’s how we imagine the cherry tree would do it: during firm led the team that designed it. the daytime, light pours in. Views of the outdoors through large, untinted windows are plentiful each of the occupants has five views from wherever he or she happens to sit. Delicious, affordable food and beverages are available to employees in a cafe that opens onto a sun-filled courtyard. In the office space, each of them controls the flow of fresh air and the temperature of their personal breathing zones. The windows open. The cooling system maximizes natural airflows, as in a hacienda: at night, the system flushes the building with cool evening air; bringing the temperature down and clearing the rooms of stale air and toxins. A layer of native grasses covers the building’s roof, making it more attractive to songbirds and absorbing water runoff, while at the same time protecting the roof from thermal shock and ultraviolet degradation. This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon SECTION 5F ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN 83 SUPPLY CHAIN ENGAGEMENT This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Ethical Report 2012-13 Supply Chain 082 Ethical Supply Chain It is important for us to persist in these efforts and expect incremental improvements The scale and complexity of the supply chain ecosystem in organizations is determined through awareness building, regular communication, and assessments and to build by various factors, some informed by key questions on business strategy and procurement practices which meet sustainability criteria, to incentivize better behaviour. operations design. In the core IT services organization, our supply ecosystem comprises of a high proportion Our benchmark for supply chain engagement is informed by widely accepted global social of contract workforce who have specialized skills in software development. Based on our and environmental standards. The ethical and social maturity of any supply chain in ongoing assessments and feedback, no major issues or concerns on basic human rights any given context is influenced by: and labour practices emerged with this empowered and informed stakeholder group. The supply chain for our IT Services and Computer Divisions. l Societal indicators – like economic imbalances, human development indices, lack of opportunity, information divide Other constituents of our supply chain include Business Support Services, Facilities and l Economics – Pricing of products and services in the market, the presence/absence of Information Management, Telecom Services and Civil Infrastructure under IT Services. informal economy, externalized costs of products and services It also includes components of IT Product Manufacturing such as Computers and Electronic Products, Chemicals, Paper and so on. l Interpretation of social values, which is often impacted by culture and societal norms We present below the broad areas of supply chain engagement and some examples of our l The presence or absence of viable alternatives engagement areas. A low maturity is primarily due to social context and the governance mechanisms we have been able to reasonably effect. Supplier Role Broad Sub-Categories Materiality Maturity Examples of Engagement People Contract Workforce High Medium-High Partner employee engagement initiative Diversity program extended to partner employees Skilled and Unskilled Labour Medium Low Supplier diversity program Equal opportunity in bidding Service Providers Transport, Utility (Electricity, Water) High Medium Periodic review of performance and integrating feedback through representative committees. Materials and Equipment Providers Civil and Infrastructure High Medium Supplier code of conduct rolled out Software/Hardware Medium Medium-High Completed supplier risk assessment study First annual supplier meet – W-elite held in March 2013. Launch of supplier engagement program Wipro Sustainability Ethical Report 2012-13 Supply Chain 083 The visual below presents our broad approach to supplier Top diverse suppliers categories: sustainability – based on the four pillars of ethical, ecological, 72% Minority Business Enterprise, responsible and local 14% Women Enterprises l Ensure ethical labor l Protect the environment Supply chain engagement –The next steps practices In the first half of 2013, we conducted W-elite, our first annual supplier meet which brought together our key suppliers and partners and allowed us to share our policies, Responsible Ecological process, and practices on ethical sourcing. l Build supplier l A management awareness to systems The next steps in the program are: Management conduct System approach drives l To prioritize risk areas and select suppliers for a detailed engagement to improve business in an sustainable environmental and social performance. ethical way solutions Diversity l This will be done through a program consisting of evaluation of existing procurement Ethics and Local practices and processes, periodic reporting, benchmarking, protocol development, l Engage beyond assessments and feedback. Our aim is to progressively include sustainability l Diversity in supply compliance. Evaluate and considerations into procurement decisions. chain, Local sourcing control exposure to risks In 2012, we completed a preliminary environmental and social risk assessment of our supplier base in 2012 in association with two UK-based organizations, Trucost and Supplier diversity Fronesys.The 2011-12 sustainability report (page 100) contains the methodology and key We are an Equal Opportunity employer and strongly advocate the same through our outputs of the study. supply chain. We encourage Supplier Diversity by identifying and engaging qualified suppliers in the following categories: Differently-abled suppliers, Women owned Enterprises and Minority-owned Enterprises. These categories are given priority over other categories of suppliers providing similar services and products. Total no. of % Spend in the Vertical Diverse Vendors Vertical Business Support 114 13.4% Services(BSS) Facilities Management 4 0.2% Group(FMG) Total 118 8.4% (Overall contribution) THE NATURAL HISTORY OF URBANIZATION LEWIS MUMFORD One of the areas of study that Lewis Mumford was particularly noted for was his work on cities and urban architecture. He was also an acclaimed American historian, sociologist, philosopher of technology, and a literary critic. According to Mumford, what defined humanity, what set human beings apart from other animals, was not primarily our use of tools and technology but also our ability and use of language. He believed that sharing of information and ideas amongst individuals of primitive societies was completely natural to early humanity, it has been instrumental in building the foundation of society as it became more complex. ‘The Natural History of Urbanization’ is an article by Lewis Mumford; his most famous book is ‘The City in History’. The excerpt below is from this article which carries many of the core ideas found in his book. 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 Excerpt from the book Whether one looks at the city morphologically or functionally, one cannot understand spoiling. This new form of food not merely offered insurance against starvation in the its development without taking in its relationship to earlier forms of cohabitation that lean years, as was recorded in the famous story of Joseph in Egypt, but likewise made it go back to non-human species. One must remember not only the obvious homologies possible to breed and support a bigger population not committed to food-raising. of the anthill and the beehive but also the nature of fixed seasonal habitations in From the standpoint of their basic nutrition, one may speak of wheat cities, rye cities, protected sites, like the breeding grounds of many species of birds. Though permanent rice cities, and maize cities, to characterize their chief source of energy; and it villages date only from Neolithic times, the habit of resorting to caves for the should be remembered that no other source was so important until the coal collective performance of magical ceremonies seems to date back to an earlier period; seams of Saxony and England were opened. With the surplus of manpower available as and whole communities, living in caves and hollowed-out walls of rock, have survived in Neolithic man escaped from a subsistence economy, it was possible to draw a larger widely scattered areas down to the present. The outline of the city as both an number of people into other forms of work and service: administration, the outward form and an inward pattern of life mechanical arts, warfare, systematic thought, and religion. So the once-scattered might be found in such ancient assemblages. population of Neolithic times, dwelling in hamlets of from ten to fifty houses Whatever the aboriginal impetus, the tendency (Childe, 1954), was concentrated into cities, ruled and regimented on a toward formal cohabitation and fixed different plan. residence gave rise, in Neolithic times, But the morphological difference between the village and the city is not simply the result to the ancestral form of the city: the village, a of the latter's superior site or of the fact that its geographic situation enables it to draw collective utility brought forth by the new on a wider area for resources, foods, and men and in turn to export their products to agricultural economy. a larger market, though both are facts conducive to population growth and economic The emergence of the city from the village expansion. What distinguish city from village are mainly two facts. The first of these was made possible by the improvements in is the presence of an organized social core, around which the whole structure plant cultivation and stock-breeding that of the community coheres. came with Neolithic culture; in particular, Along with this bold aesthetic transformations of the outward environment, another the cultivation of the hard grains that could tendency distinguishes the city from the village a tendency to loosen the bonds that be produced in abundance and kept connect its habitants with nature and to transform, eliminate, or replace its over from year to year without earth-bound aspects, covering the natural site with an artificial environment that enhances the dominance of man and encourages an illusion of complete independence from nature. This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon SECTION 5G EDUCATION AND COMMUNITY CARE 89 WIPRO APPLYING THOUGHT IN SCHOOLS 93 EARTHIAN INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY IN EDUCATION 94 MISSION 10X – TRANSFORMING ENGINEERING EDUCATION IN INDIA 94 WIPRO CARES COMMUNITY CARE WHERE IT MATTERS This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 088 Education and Community Care Education and Community Care are the two areas that we decided to focus on when we Management Approach: started a decade ago. We have been implementing our social transformation initiatives for more than a decade Digital Inclusion is a more recent addition to our community program through its focus now. Over the years, our approach has been to engage in social issues with sensitivity, rigor on low-cost technology interventions in health care and citizen services for rural areas. and responsibility. Visual Summary of Wipro’s Programs in Education and Community Care Addresses Addresses Addresses Issues of Long term disaster Affordable health care deep systemic rehabilitation & and other reform in issues of health, community services India’s education system education and environment by use of technology COMMUNITY CARE DIGITAL INCLUSION EDUCATION Comprises Comprises Comprises Comprises Mission 10X, Wipro Applying Wipro Cares, ARISE Applied research and a not-for-profit Thought in a not-for-profit system prototyping activities in trust Schools (WATIS) trust low cost applications across domains Rural Connect Common Services Center for Works with Through a Works with Rural Communities Program 700+ engineering network of proximate colleges across 30 partners, communities Connected Mobility Solutions 20 states, reaching reaches 2000+ schools through partners Provides broad solutions platform to 10,000 faculty across the country tackle computational needs across various domains Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 089 Wipro ApplyingThought in Schools The past five sustainability reports trace the evolution of Wipro Applying Thought in Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) is one of Wipro’s social initiatives, which, for Schools from the initial days of its working on teacher education programs for schools; over a decade, has been engaged in building capacities for school education reform in to its decision, based on its decade long experience in the domain, to work towards India. Our work is driven by the belief that education is a key enabler of social change, and excellence in a few selected areas that are important to good quality education, but are that schools have to be spaces that nurture these principles, capabilities & values. often neglected by not just the mainstream schools but also the government agencies and the society at large. Our key strategy is to partner with civil society and other organizations across the country in this endeavour. The Journey So Far Teacher Empowerment Holistic School Engagements Organizational Capability Focus on Themes and Programmes Development Outcomes What we did: 2-year long What we did: The approach What we did: Built specific In addition to building specific Intense Teacher training towards HSE projects which capabilities within organizations and capabilities, we also focus on specific Programme for schools with included curricular assessment also developed capacity and stature in thematic areas with tangible partner organizations. among other areas, was consultative the education reform space. outcomes that can be disseminated What we learnt: Looking at and dialogic. What we learnt: Issues related to to a large audience. the education problem only as a What we learnt: Third party curriculum development could limit Themes: Ecology, Social Sciences, teacher and the teachinginterventions are more effective in systemic change within a school, so Language, Affective Education learning problem is limited and bringing about cultural or there is a need for keeping specific Outcomes: Organizational not enough. procedural changes and so the need areas central to a project and develop Development, Education Material for specific inputs and usable more visibility and engagement in and Public Advocacy material is critical. alignment with the school’s objectives. Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 090 Choice of Themes Choice of Themes Ecology Affective Education and School education. For example, we are and Emotional Learning (SEL) and for In addition to the larger concern of Environment suppor ting a project called the first time in India, attempts to arrive ecology not finding its due space within We are also focused on bringing about SeasonWatch, which is run in at a broad-based framework and the educational discourse in the changes in the school environment and partnership with National Centre for learning standards in SEL. country; our work in Ecology and making the school an emotionally safe Biological Sciences and Nature Education is also inspired by Wipro’s space for children. Our concerns on this, Conservation Foundation which aims to commitment to ecological sustainability. span a wide array of issues: “The most instill the scientific spirit among students Our core concerns in this area have important issue is that of the freedom and connect them with nature by taking been previously articulated in “Our that the school system provides to all them outside the classroom. Concerns on School education in India” stakeholders. How much free time does as below: “The earth is made up of a child get to play, read or just “be” Language Social Sciences interconnected systems, cycles and within our education system? How Recognizing the severity of the Unlike Natural Sciences, matters in processes. Ecological education should often does the child choose what she challenge in this space in terms of both Social Sciences do not fit into formulas aim at following the trails and should learn or do and the pace of the capacity of factors involved in nor is any one theory able to explain connecting the dots. It has to often be learning? How much freedom does the language education, as well as the across time and space any significant outside the classroom and span multiple teacher have in shaping the curriculum, dearth of high quality content, we have aspect of societies. There is a subjects. This raises issues with the 40 teaching approach and assessment?” made language education our third key multiplicity of ways of seeing the world minute period structure of schools “Do democratic values like the children focus area. We have articulated our and this can be very confusing and today and demands interdisciplinary engaging in open dialogue on some topic basic concern within this theme as needs an attention of a different kind. In skills from teachers. Further there is a happen often enough in the school? Is it follows: “India is a country with diverse line with the NCF 2005, social sciences tendency of environmental education integral to the environment of the cultures, educational contexts and education has to shift out of either a to be bracketed with individual school?” Equally important is the area of languages. To able to create a good nationalizing frame alone or as a tool of contributions like reducing plastic usage affective education. This covers a wide learning environment, it is imperative narrow identity formation and and recycling etc. Many of these range of elements that are different that children are able to engage with accommodate the ‘multiple ways of conceptualize the child as a consumer from subjects like science and language (not just spoken in class but imagining the Indian nation'. This is just but fail to bring out the aspects related mathematics: attitudes, beliefs, values, also the environment in the school). one of the many important concerns in to the child as future citizen.” feelings, emotions, interpersonal Multilingualism is seen as one possible the domain of social science education. relations etc. Our serious engagement in this domain method to overcome this issue. There It is also true that it tends to be a has started with a dedicated Partner’s An example of our work in this area is a could be other pedagogical methods neglected subject in many schools forum on Ecology & Education in 2009. research project being done in too. Beyond this, there are issues with compared to Mathematics or English. Over the last few years, we have collaboration with The Teacher the politics of languages and the dearth of good literature on any subject in Our serious engagement with this expanded our work to 4 projects in Foundation, that draws on existing languages other than English. This theme area began with a Partners’ different areas within ecology and literature/work in the domain of Social Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 091 Choice of Themes politics is something a school faces on Forum on History and education in an everyday basis. And these have 2010 which brought out the various implications not only in teaching aspects of History as a discipline and language but in other subjects also. how this can be learnt in schools. An How do we engage with these example of our work in this domain is a problems in the school and in the project in which we are supporting classroom?” Vikramshila to come out with interdicplininar y and project based To explore ways of addressing some of curricular material for social science these concerns, as an example, we have education in West Bengal schools. begun focused work in partnership with Eklavya on a multilingual language education program for tribal and other marginalized children in Bhopal. Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 092 Key highlights this year Goals 2012-13 Updates Organization Capability Building Work towards leadership in With 5 projects including Earthian, we have a l With 3 new partnerships, the partner network consists of 31 organization ecology & education by strong portfolio of projects and experiences in l Significant portfolio of 10 projects on priority theme areas ecology, language etc building on ecology projects ecology and education and are deepening our work in this area. l All 9 projects recently started are well on track l Partner’s forum on “Assessment & School Education” organized successfully in Organize Annual Partners’ Partners Forum on assessment organized in Dec, 2012. Forum December, 2013. Video summaries of the forum sessions are being disseminated through Edu Material & Literature Public Advocacy online platforms l Tulika series on science for children l QES Seminars in all 5 cities Educational Material & The ‘first look science picture books’ is a series of published; consists of 5 books in completed; reached out to ~ 700 key Publishing Picture books on Science that came out of our 9 languages school functionaries. 40+ coverage in collaboration with Tulika Books. 5 books in 9 l Both Goodbooks and Kabir newspapers & magazines Complete work on 4 more languages were published. Draft of a graphic resource portal progressing well; l Regular coverage of our projects, books/booklets which are WIP novel on Tangkhul Naga folk tale completed. though both are delayed compared learning and ideas in media Work on a book on Philosophy of Education for to the plan teachers and educators, is ongoing. Launch goodbooks.in Website launched December 2013. Goals and Updates this year Launch Kabir resource portal Resource portal on Kabir for educators is now and materials for educators part of a larger, high quality and content rich Goals 2012-13 Updates portal on mystic poetry; and the project Expand partner network 3 new partnerships this year take our network to timelines have thus been rescheduled to 31 organizations. More than 10 are in priority Q1 2014. areas language, social studies, ecology & l Documentation of the holistic school affective education. engagement program in Phagiblock of Consolidate the 9 new Rajasthan, in association with Digantar was 9 new projects started recently are now well projects started in 2011-12 completed and shared with all stakeholders. on track. l Education Dialogues Trust came out with two Continue to tap resource Eklavya as resource support to Vikramshila on new volumes of the journal Contemporary orgamization as needed Social Science project; CFL and ATREE as Education Dialogue. resource organizations in earthian; Tulika Books l Support provided for Chakmak, the helped with History Forum publications children’s magazine in Hindi brought out by Eklavya Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 093 The main intervention is around teacher development; to identify 40 teachers with the Goals 2012-13 Updates objective of improving their teaching skills and capacity to act as change leaders, with the Continue the regular project The content for this within the projects is still help of a two-year capacity development programme in May/June 2013. Five districts documentation & support to getting created; This goal will be taken up on within Boston have already been identified for this programme, while the New York education journals priority in 2013-14 districts are presently being identified. Plan for 2013-14 Strike a few alliances for distribution Organization Capability Building l Continue expansion of partner network keeping in mind priority themes, distribution, Public Advocacy QES Seminars in all 5 cities completed; untouched geographies etc.Add 5 new partners. reached out to ~700 key school functionaries. l Keep track of progress with the existing organizations we work with; tap them as resource Continue on QES advocacy: 40+ coverage in newspapers & magazines, and organizations and individual people; identify organization development possibilities. website and videos videos completed; l Continue to work towards leadership in ecology & education by building on Launched Quality Education portal ecology projects. www.qualityeducationstudy.com l Organize Partner’s forum and support other possibilities for networking & development Pursue other advocacy ideas l Feasibility of the right to education and Continue regular outreach the role of the state in fulfilling this Edu Material & Literature Public Advocacy fundamental right. l Sustainability in education within Earthian has l Conclude work on the 3 existing l Develop & implement a strategy for also been identified as a theme for advocacy books which are WIP and the portals more regular outreach covering online, for next year Kabir & Goodbooks. print, events etc l Regular coverage in 2012-13 on Madrasah l Develop & implement a distribution l Consider working on another medium project in Economic and Political Weekly & strategy for all content to large Scale advocacy campaign this AajKal; on SeasonWatch in Mint and on QES in city seminars. QES references continue to Earthian Integrating sustainability in education appear in the media. We have endeavoured to work on the educational challenges in schools and colleges and on ecological sustainability issues.This was the genesis of Earthian, an annual programme, the first edition of which was launched in April 2011. In the first phase of the programme, Wipro US Science Education Fellowship we asked teams to write critical and well-reasoned essays on various themes – by looking This is a social initiative undertaken in the United States in line with the US Government's at issues through the lens of different socio economic contexts. identified priorities in Science & Math education in schools.This program is being run with the goal of improving Science & Math education in inner-city schools serving In the last two editions (2011 and 2012), over 2000 schools and colleges participated in disadvantaged communities, in partnership with the University of Massachusetts (for the programme. The 20 best entries from schools and colleges every year are selected by Boston)and Montclair State University (for NewYork). an eminent jury with varied experience in academia, research and social sector Non-Governmental Organizations. Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 094 30 winning institutes are now part of a Continuing Engagement Program (CEP) offered in Technology learning along with acquisition of skills required by an engineering association with Wipro’s partner ecosystem in education and sustainability.The CEP, the graduate. Inauguration of all the centres and training of faculty in all these centres was core of earthian, includes teachers’ workshops, environmental footprint measurement of completed during March 2013. campuses, biodiversity and theatre workshops. l NASSCOM has partnered with Mission10X to use our learning approach as a Participation Recognition CEP framework for designing Foundation Skills in Information Technology (FSIT) for engineering students across the country. l More than 2000 entries l Independent five l A 3-year continuous from schools and member jury goes engagement program l Designing workshops for teachers, called ‘Enhancing Teaching Skills’ in Science colleges. through a multi stage (CEP). colleges, the first of which happened at Sri Krishna Arts and Science College in l International selection process. l Participants from Coimbatore from 5th to 7th November, 2012. participation. Entries l 20 winners selected winning schools and l 5 workshops conducted in the year 2012-13, where over 120 faculty members from from U.S, Germany and with 10 each from colleges. Latin America. Schools and Colleges 26 colleges participated. l Delivered through l Multiple formats for l Winners felicitated by education and ecology Wipro Cares submission Essays, Chairman during a day conservation partners Scripts, Plays long program l Multiple strands of Wipro Cares was founded on the belief that responsibility towards proximate engagement communities, including disadvantaged sections is not just the prerogative but also the duty l Place based learning of every responsible corporate citizen. The ‘Spirit of Wipro’ drives the charter of l Ecological footprint Wipro Cares which is to focus on issues pertaining to access to primary healthcare, measurement quality education, degraded environments and disaster rehabilitation. l Biodiversity and Conservation Organized as a trust, consisting of volunteering Wiproites, Wipro Cares ensures that l Theater in Education funds donated by Wiproites are matched by Wipro. and others Wipro Cares approach to meaningfully engage with communities Mission10X – improving capabilities in engineering education Mission10X, launched on September 5, 2007, is one of our not-for-profit quantum Identify communities & Develop Drive project Assess social innovation projects. It aims at promoting systemic changes to current teaching-learning Define areas partners at objectives and implementation impact of the paradigms in engineering education in collaboration with the academia and has achieved of engagement various locations outcomes for with appropriate project and the project governance address any gaps tremendous recognition and momentum in the field of engineering education. It has across the country mechanism now spread to over 1,200 engineering colleges across 25 states in India and has reached out to over 23,000 engineering faculty through its innovative Mission10X Learning Approach (MxLA). l In 2012-13 Wipro Cares provided access to primary health care to a population of around 51000 people through five of its health care projects in Maharashtra, Highlights of 2012-13 Karnataka & Andhra Pradesh. l Collaborations with 25 engineering colleges across India l The projects focused on building the capacities of existing health workers and l The establishment of Mission10X Technology Learning Centres (MTLC) that houses mobilizing people in the communities to realize their health rights. Unified Technology Learning Platform (UTLP). The UTL platform promotes Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 095 l 2012 – 13 saw the completion of three years of our first health care project in Waluj, MaharastraSanjeevani, which, in the span of three years, reached out to more than 45,000 patients through its mobile health clinic and aided more than 6000 pregnant In Phase II of the social forestry project we supported Restoration of the planting of another 25,000 saplings by 22 farmers in women through the Reproductive Child Health (RCH) clinic. Environment Tiruvannamalai district, Tamilnadu l Malnutrition in the 10 project villages in the age group of 0-6 years saw a significant drop from 51.2% to 17.63%. l Wipro Cares continued to provide non-formal education to more than 71600 children in 5 cities and 1 village. l The primary stakeholders and the most material issues that arise on this them: US Chapter mobilized employees to donate to the Red Cross towards the victims of Hurricane Sandy, this Disaster The principal stakeholders for Wipro Cares include Wiproites, NGO partners and most contribution was matched by Wipro Rehabilitation importantly, marginalized proximate communities that face challenges with regards to degraded environments, natural disasters and access to quality education and healthcare. Summary of progress highlights: In 2012-13 Wipro Cares supported 14 projects. Key highlights are shown below: Initiated Communication Skills Enhancement Program WBPO (CSEP) to up skill the students / existing employees to a Community Voice & Accent (VA) entry level of communication skills. Project Phase I was held in September 2012 & Phase II was held The health care project at Waluj, Maharashtra saw a in February 2013, both were attended by 73 participants. proposal of adding 5 Villages reaching out to around Primary Health 4000 more people, this will be executed in 2013-14. The Care Services health care project in Amalner, Maharashtra added 2 As a part of the US Chapter started the BIG Brother Big more villages reaching out to 1000 more people Sister initiative, a non-profit organisation whose mission is to help children reach their potential through professionally supported, one-to-one relationships with mentors. Overseas Volunteering activities are being carried out in ASEAN (Singapore), UAE and Brazil. Supported the education of more than 71600 children Access to in 5 cities & 1 village through 6 projects Sustained employee engagement through campaigns like joy Education of giving and blood donation across Wipro locations pan-India. 3000 employees donated blood. Employee Around 400 books were collected in a book collection drive Engagement in Bangalore, these books were given to orphanages. In addition, they organized an online organ donation program, 81 people registered. Wipro Sustainability Education and Report 2012-13 Community Care 096 Brief Description of the New Projects in 2012-13 List of cities Social Forestry inTamil Nadu Overseas (Total80) In Phase II of the project about 25000 teak and mango trees have been planted in around 1. US Chapter – Atlanta – 5 volunteers 40 acres of waste land by 22 farmers in Tiruvannamalai district,Tamil Nadu. In addition the 2. Brazil Chapter – Curitiba – 20 volunteers farmers would also receive carbon credits for the trees planted by them after they are 3. ASEAN Chapter – Singapore – around 13 volunteers duly quantified. 4. UAE Chapter – Dubai – around 22 volunteers Assistance to people affected by Hurricane Sandy 5. PhilippinesCebu & Manila – around 20 volunteers In October 2012, the Super Storm Sandy affected 24 states in the United States. In Indian (Total183) response, our US Chapter encouraged employees to donate to the American Red Cross towards relief work. A total of 239 employees donated, and the contributions collected 1. Kolkata – 31 volunteers from employees were equally matched by Wipro. 2. Greater Noida – 6 volunteers 3. Pune – 7 volunteers Communication Skills Enhancement Programme (CSEP) 4. Chennai – 31 volunteers CSEP was a pilot project at Manjakuddi,WIPRO’s first rural BPO and its aim was to work 5. Gurgaon – 17 volunteers towards improving the employability of youth in rural areas by providing the necessary skills to an educated resource pool of school students, college students and existing 6. Bangalore – 27 volunteers employees. The objective was to up skill the participants of the program to a Voice & 7. Kochi – 20 volunteers Accent (VA) entry level of communication skills. . 73 participants attended the 8. Hyderabad – 12 volunteers programme which was conducted in 2 phases, consisting of 10 days each. 9. Pondicherry – 5 volunteers 10. Kotdwar – 10 volunteers EmployeeVolunteering in 2012-13 11. Mumbai – 17 volunteers Our international locations saw an initiation of employee volunteering, in countries like the US, Brazil ASEAN countries, UAE and the Philippines. The following are the details from our US and Philippines initiatives: 1. United States As a part of the US Chapter started the Big Brother Big Sister initiative, a nonprofit organization whose mission is to help children reach their potential through professionally-supported one-to-one relationships with mentors. 2. Philippines WIPRO-BT participated in the ‘Red Nose Day’ eventa fun fundraising campaign for charity. Both WIPRO Cebu and the Manila site participated by organizing fun activities to raise money for two very deserving Philippines charities Rise Above Foundation in Cebu and Street Kids in Manila. Prolific author, poet, essayist, cultural critic, environmentalist, farmer and activist, Wendell Berry’s contention is that merely wanting a good life is not adequate. A definition to good life includes sustainable agriculture, healthy rural communities, pleasures of good food, husbandry, local economics, fidelity, frugality, reverence, and the inter-connectedness of life. He is the recipient of the 2013 Richard C. Holbrooke Distinguished Achievement Award. Last year, Wendell Berry delivered a lecture titled Boomers and Stickers in which he spoke about how unsustainable agrarian practices, unmindful consumerism, ignorance and greed shatter the dream of a good life. Berry reminds us that each of us must take the onus for the environment. We need to realize that the boomer enterprise asks for more than it returns. Berry’s humble agrarian economy may involve much that is considered unattractive today, but it also presents us with the 1854 1864 1949 1956 1962 1968 1989 1991 2002 2013 absence of vicious and invasive destruction. Excerpt from the book That we live now in an economy that is not sustainable is not the fault only of a few The crop was to be sold at auction in Louisville on the next day. They would mongers of power and heavy equipment. We all are implicated. We all, in the have been sitting in the light of a kerosene lamp, close to the stove, warming course of our daily economic life, consent to it, whether or not we approve of it. themselves before bedtime. They were not wealthy people. I believe that the debt on This is because of the increasing abstraction and unconsciousness of our connection their farm was not fully paid, there would have been interest to pay, there would to our economic sources in the land, the land-communities, and the land-use have been other debts.The depression of the 1890s would have left them burdened. economies. In my region and within my memory, for example, human life has become Perhaps, after the income from the crop had paid their obligations, there would be less creaturely and more engineered, less familiar and more remote from local some money that they could spend as they chose. At around two o’clock the next places, pleasures, and associations. Our knowledge, morning, my father was wakened by a horse’s shod hooves on the stones of in short, has become increasingly statistical. the driveway. His father was leaving to catch the train to With the coming of industrialism, the great see the crop sold. industrialists, like kings and conquerors, become He came home that evening, as my father later would exploiters of statistical knowledge. And finally put it, “without a dime.” After the crop had paid its virtually all of us, in order to participate and transportation to market and the commission on its survive in their system, have had to agree to their sale, there was nothing left. Thus began my father’s substitution of statistical knowledge for personal lifelong advocacy, later my brother’s and my own, knowledge. Virtually all of us now share with and now my daughter’s and my son’s, for small farmers the most powerful industrialists their and for land-conserving economies. remoteness from actual experience of the actual world. Like them, we participate in an absentee economy, which makes us effectively absent even from our own dwelling places. Though most of us have little wealth and perhaps no power, we consumer–citizens are more like James B. Duke than we are like my grandfather. By economic proxies thoughtlessly given, by thoughtless consumption of goods ignorantly purchased, now we all are boomers. One night in the winter of 1907, at what we have always called “the home place” in Henry County, Kentucky, my father, then six years old, sat with his older brother and listened as their parents spoke of the uses they would have for the money from their 1906 tobacco crop. SECTION 5H ADVOCACY AND PUBLIC POLICY This picture was taken at the butterfly park in Wipro’s Electronic City campus. Photo Credit: Ajay Menon Wipro Sustainability Advocacy and Report 2012-13 Public Policy 100 Advocacy and Public Policy Organizations we work with CSTEP in the area of Clean Energy Wipro’s Management Approach: The challenges of sustainability need a multi-modal, The table below provides a summary of our major stakeholder engagements in advocacy multi-stakeholder approach and each stakeholder – Business, Government,Academia, and and outreach Civil Society – brings in a dynamic that is unique.We think that the industry’s role should progressively transform from being compliance-driven to one of proactive participation Category of Domain Brief highlights outreach advocacy and innovative action in this sphere. Our areas of focus on policy and advocacy have centred on Clean Energy and Climate Energy & Climate l Through the CII Climate Engagement through Change, Water, e-Waste, Education and Diversity. We work through industry platforms Change Change Council, enhance industry networks like CII and to support research and advocacy with partners who carry expertise in the awareness on mitigating above domains. climate change; advance advocacy and partnership This section provides an overview of the work that we have been doing on policy and with the Government of advocacy in the above areas with emphasis on the highlights for 2012-13. India on matters of Stakeholders and the primary issues: Our primary identified stakeholders for public common interest policy and advocacy are: Corporate Social l Engage in-depth with the Engagement through Relevant government ministries and departments, both at the centre and the Responsibility (CSR) industry networks and Indian government – in state levels. Our interactions have been largely with the Ministry of Environment and particular, the Ministry of Direct engagement Forests, the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, the Planning Commission and the Corporate Affairs – Ministry of Corporate Affairs. on the CSR provisions in Industry networks and associations play a crucial role as credible catalysts for the Companies Bill 2012 awareness, advocacy and action on the multiple dimensions of sustainability; by providing a amendments common platform for industry representatives to exchange ideas and practices and facilitate dialogue on policy and directives. The industry networks that we have been an Product Stewardship l As part of the CII Engagement through integral part of are: industry networks and Environment Committee, l The CII-Godrej Green Business Centre Wipro was also a Direct engagement l The CII-ITC Centre for Sustainable Development convener of the working l The CII Climate Change Council group on e-Waste l The NASSCOM working groups on Gender Diversity l Its goal was to bring l The FICCI Sustainability Forum producers, customers, recyclers and government Research and Advocacy NGOs: Issues like Energy, Climate Change, Water, together to discuss Biodiversity, Community Education, Health etc. require strong civil society involvement in improvements to the addition to policy intervention and business action. By combining the right blend of field e-Waste Rules 2012 work and academic rigor, NGOs and academic institutions can generate valuable insights that can inform the work of practitioners, policy makers and industry professionals. Wipro Sustainability Advocacy and Report 2012-13 Public Policy 101 Category of Category of Domain Brief highlights Domain Brief highlights outreach advocacy outreach advocacy School Education The key l advocacy in Engagement through Sustainability Literacy Through l Earthian, Wipro’s Both direct 2012-13 was around the industry networks and Education flagship programme in engagement and Quality Education Study sustainability education for through our (QES) that we undertook schools and colleges, our network of partners in partnership with goal is to act as catalysts Educational Initiatives, one for wider sustainability of the country's leading advocacy among the young educational research in India’s schools organizations. and colleges We conducted l seminars in Theatre l in education all the five metro cities to could be a platform for share the findings from sustainability learning, and the study. towards this, we have in place a long-term Work l with the Madrasah partnership with Board in West Bengal and Bangalore Little Theatre SeasonWatch, a national We hosted l a public talk at citizen science initiative, Bangalore in August 2012 covered in popular media by David Orr, renowned and academic journals. global thinker on sustainability and Annual l forum with environment education. education partners deliberated on Assessment and Water We have l adopted the Engagement through School Education . Responsible Water civil society partners framework within our and cross-stakeholder Supported l the annual operations which tries to networks workshop of the look at water as a Conservation Education collective ecological and Network to discuss and community resource share knowledge on their which is managed by all educational initiatives the stakeholders across India. Wipro Sustainability Advocacy and Report 2012-13 Public Policy 102 Category of Domain Brief highlights outreach advocacy Water Along l with our partner Engagement through Biome, we convened a civil society partners multi-stakeholder and cross-stakeholder workshop on Responsible networks Water with senior level representation from government, academia, civil society and industry. Diversity lMAIT(Manufacturers’ e-waste Association of Information Technology) working group and the ‘e-waste 2012’ legislation Wipro Sustainability Feedback & Report 2012-13 Communication 103 Feedback and Communication We welcome our readers’ feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro’s Sustainability Report 2012-13 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. It is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program. You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact Detalis Wipro sustainability team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr. P.S. Narayan WIPRO LIMITED Vice President & Head Sustainability Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India Tel: +91 080 25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. R. Sridhar WIPRO LIMITED CFO & Investors’ Relations East Brunswick, Tower 2, Americas & Europe New Jersey, USA Ph: +1 732 509 1516 Email: sridhar.ramasubbu@wipro.com Mr. Santosh Karagada Wipro Limited Vice President & Head HR 2 Tower Center Boulevard, Americas & Europe Suite 2200, East Brunswick, New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 818 620 6506 Email: sontosh.karagada@wipro.com Mr. Aravind Viswanathan Wipro Limited Head of Corporate Treasury Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, and Investor Relations Bangalore 560 035. India Tel: +91 80 39916143 Email: aravind.viswanathan@wipro.com Wipro Limited Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. India. Phone: +91 (80) 2844 0011, Fax: (080) 2844 0256 To know more about Wipro sustainability practice, log on to http://www.wipro.com/about-wipro/sustainability/ or http://wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability_disclosures.htm We welcome feedback, suggestions and points of view from our readers. Readers can write to sustain.report@wipro.com
