Communication on progress 2014 5 July 2014 STATEMENT BY THE CEO’s Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 2 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT ANTIHUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION Principle 1: Principle 3: Principle 7: Principle 10:  Businesses should  Businesses should  Businesses should  Businesses should support and respect uphold the freedom of support a work against the protection of association and the precautionary corruption in all its internationally effective recognition of approach to forms, including proclaimed human the right to collective environmental extortion and bribery. rights; and bargaining; challenges; Principle 2: Principle 4: Principle 8:  Make sure that they  The elimination of all  Undertake initiatives to are not complicit in forms of forced and promote greater human rights abuses. compulsory labour; environmental Principle 5: responsibility; and  The effective abolition Principle 9: of child labour; and  Encourage the Principle 6: development and  The elimination of diffusion of environmentally discrimination in friendly technologies. respect of employment and occupation. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Webhelp overview Page 4 2 Human rights Page 7 3 Labour Page 13 4 Environment Page 18 5 Anti-corruption Page 21 Communication on progress 2014 4 1 WEBHELP OVERVIEW 1 Webhelp overview 2 3 4 5 VISION AND VALUES Become a worldwide benchmark company in the field of customer relationship management, recognized for its innovation and high quality of services ENGINEERING NEW CUSTOMER EXPERIENCES COMMITMENT  We honour the promises made to colleagues and customers.  Working as one team towards a common success takes UNITY precedence over personal interest.  Acknowledgement of individual contribution is essential to RECOGNITION ensure our collective success.  We work with a positive attitude, leading by example. We treat INTEGRITY others the way we would expect to be treated.  By striving to go beyond their expectations, we continually look to WOW-EFFECT amaze the people we work with. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés 1 Webhelp overview 2 3 4 5 A STRONG PARTNER FOR OUR CLIENTS #3 IN 45 22 000 EUROPE INTERNATIONAL CENTERS CUSTOMER United Kingdom IN 10 COUNTRIES EMPLOYEES RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT Netherlands SOLUTIONS PROVIDER Belgium France 165 Romania CUSTOMERS Morocco Algeria Surinam 500 M€ OF TURNOVER (MOST IMPORTANT Madagascar GROWTH IN THE SECTOR FROM Webhelp South Africa 2002 TO 2012) Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 7 2 HUMAN RIGHTS 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS TO HUMAN RIGHTS “Label de Responsabilité Sociale” certified since 2011 (Social Responsibility Label) LRS Signing of the Charter of Diversity Signing of numerous agreements relating to the employment of vulnerable groups (employment of young and senior populations, disabled people, long term unemployed people...) Formalized training paths for all people to ensure their employability Partnered with local employment institutions Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS GREATLY ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY  2011 saw the launch of Webhelp’s Disability policy.  Following a quantitative and qualitative audit by Thompouss, the policy was enhanced in 2013. The results identified our strengths and areas for improvement, which is why we have adjusted our policy for disabled people.  Webhelp France wished to formalize its commitment to people with disabilities by signing a partnership agreement with AGEFIPH. Our goal is to significantly advance and harmonize our practices for all of our sites. AGEFIPH is a major player in the employment of people with disabilities in France. The signing of this Convention will allow us to benefit from the expertise of AGEFIPH to improve our daily practices. This agreement will be signed at the latest by September 2014 and deployed at sites in France for a period of 2 years, renewable once.  Internal dynamics have been created around disability within Webhelp. A working group was convened in July 2013 by the Communication Director. The objective was to create the first internal communication campaign in France. It was deployed at all sites during the Week for the Employment of People with Disabilities of 18 to 24 November 2013. This campaign consisted of four posters and newsletters.  In Morocco, a sister project with the Moroccan Disabled Association (25,000 members) was initiated. Webhelp’s contribution allowed the construction of 20 additional nursing rooms in the Noor Hospital Centre.  Webhelp Romania supports a social organization specialized in the re-employment of vulnerable people.  For Webhelp Nederland Social involvement and responsibility through charities such as the fundraisers for Dutch Cancer Society and giro 555  Webhelp Nederland formalized its commitment for increasing employability for people with disabilities RESULTS : Employment rate of disabled workers in Webhelp France grew from 3.8% in 2012 to 5.6% in 2013 Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 10 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES WEEK 18 24 NOVEMBER 2013 Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 11 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS IMPROVED ANTI-HARASSMENT MANAGEMENT  The 2012 LRS audit recommendations included an anti-harassment policy to monitor cases of harassment. Actions :  training module to understand what harassment means, giving keys on how to respond,  internal rules that inform employees about the laws on harassment (sexual or moral)  In France, a Prevention of Harassment project creates a warning system, allowing any employee to report, for himself or for a third party, a difficult situation which, if it was to continue, could lead to a potential harassment. Procedure governed by a Prevention and Mediation Committee : a site manager, the RRH and members of the HSC. Each committee member receives pre-harassment training delivered by an external training organization (ALFA NERO).  In Morocco, Webhelp has implemented a similar system, called Pro Alert which is being revised but still in force. The new version of the tool will ensure easier tracking of actions implemented and have a more global view of situations,  All employees have the opportunity to alert the HR Director without involving “management”. If offers employees feeling harassed protection from possible retaliation .  Support of the application shall be managed directly by the HR Director or delegated regional HR manager.  Webhelp Nederland has installed a counselor outside regular management for all complaints about harassment. Complaints are given directly to the HR director for immediate intervention. There is also a formal complaints committee supervises by the HR director. RESULTS : Current positive pilot implementation in Montceau les Mines. All employees follow the e-learning class on harassment. 100 % of people involved in recruitment process follow the e-learning class on non-discrimation. Webhelp Communication on progress 2014 Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés 12 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS ESTABLISHMENT OF A CHARTER SIGNED BY WEBHELP MAIN SUPPLIERS. IT ENCAPSULATES PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT (OFFICE DEPOT, DELL ...)  When signing the Webhelp supplier charter, the supplier company expressly undertakes to:  Respect the national labor laws including statutory working hours and overtime,  Be fully compliant with international norms,  Declare all of its staff to collector social organizations,  Ensure the effective and on time payment of social security contributions. Provide, at Webhelp’s request, certificates proving such payments for the previous calendar period.  Respect the fundamental rights of the human, refuse any form of discrimination, ensure fair and dignified attitude towards all employees,  Enforce decent working conditions,  Fight against corruption and ensure Webhelp’s procurement practices.  Share information of demand of the services ordered.  Use its best efforts to preserve the environment and introduce sustainable development (energy saving, waste management). RESULTS :  The Supplier Evaluation Grid carries the suppliers signed support of the charter  76% of strategic suppliers have been evaluated in 2013, using the supplier evaluation grid. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 13 3 LABOUR Communication on progress 2014 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS FOR LABOUR  Negotiation and signing  Pleasant work of various agreements conditions, state of the relating to working art buildings, working conditions (male / spaces of high quality female equality, freedom designed for advisers of expression of employees, management or annualization of working time).  Respect for the culture  Various social benefits of the country we’re in. including nursery For instance, in Morocco, facilities, employees during the Ramadan, transportation, fitness “ftour” (breaking of centers, rest areas, the Ramadan fast) is different incentives and offered to all employees team building events. that are working in the time slot Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PLANNING MORE RESPONSIVE TO THE NEEDS OF EMPLOYEES.  Creation of a system that allows employees to swap a day off by making requests for exchange.  In France, many actions have been undertaken regarding the planning to meet the constraints of production and introduce flexibility in the management of schedules:  A Tour de France of planning project was launched in 2013. This was to meet all employees and explain the tool available to employees. To prepare for this tour, all employees completed a quiz to identify their needs.  Ideally, schedules are sent to all advisors by email at least 2/3 weeks in advance. This period cannot be shortened to less than 7 days. RESULTS : All advisors have early access to the planning and the possibility to ask for modifications. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 16 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR CREATION OF HR COMMUNITIES.  To discuss and harmonize our HR practices, Group HR has implemented HR communities since June 2012.  In France, the HR team meets twice a month to share information from the Executive Committee, to discuss best practices and news as well as status of HR projects in France. These meetings provide an update on the everyday problems and allows to determine the actions to be put in place to continuously improve the quality of HR management. It’s also an opportunity to bring together both the human resources managers of sites (8) and heads of HR projects around cross-functional issues. These exchanges are essential to have an overview of France HR issues.  In Morocco, an HR fortnightly meeting is held to discuss local news of Morocco and cross-functional issues. Present are Morocco HR, heads of various departments and regional HR managers.  At Group level, HR Group meetings are held every 3 weeks between countries to share news and follow HR projects. They also aim to harmonize best practices. The Group HR, HR Directors from all countries (France, Morocco, Romania, Belgium, Madagascar) and the directors of HR projects, are present.  In Netherlands, an organizational change has been made in the HR team to ensure a better connection between HR and Management an between HR advisors in the teams. Exchange of best practices is now formalized RESULTS : A systematic pooling of our best practices Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 17 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR TO ENSURE GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS, ASK EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY.  For the past many years, Webhelp had its own internal barometer that measures the satisfaction of employees of the Group: the SATSA.  It has evolved in 2013 to meet the international growth of the Group: it is composed of 22 common questions, + an additional 4 or 5 questions dedicated to specific issues in each country.  It’s an objective way to evaluate commitment, and identify areas for improvement. RESULTS :  Completion rate for France, Morocco, Algeria, Romania, Madagascar: 88,17%  Commitment rate : 76% Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 18 4 ENVIRONNEMENT 19 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS  For several years, Webhelp has been part of a sustainable development strategy  As an office based company, Webhelp’s two main environmental impacts are production of waste and CO2 emissions from consumption of electricity. Our environmental policy states our commitment to Encourage Communicate reducing both of Comply with similar issues to our Prevent Implement these, and also states environmental Foster standards from staff through Reduce, reuse pollution by energy legislation and management our training and & recycle effective efficient our commitment to: best practices commitment stakeholders communication materials controls measures  Batteries  Water: PIRS on urinals, low flush  Sorting waste paper/ cardboard/ cans/ toilets, push spray taps. plastic  Air conditioning: office & server room  Ink cartridges temperature set at 19° C.  Expresso capsules + Cups  Paper: PIN printing, paperless office  Bulbs / fluorescent tubes environment, paper towels removed.  Food  Energy: Energy efficient hand driers, THE vending machine timers, PIRs in all SUSTAINABLE meeting/training rooms in UK. DEVELOPEMENT  Shuttles (Morocco) AT WEBHELP  Active policy to reduce unnecessary  Bicycle parking shelters printing.  Discounted bus travel (UK)  AVOB (PC automatic standby)  Carpooling  Pairing electrical maintenance and  Video conferencing to reduce business HVAC (heating/ ventilation/ air travel conditioning)  Electric vehicles and charging stations  Criteria related to sustainable at all Netherlands branches development included in all quotes Webhelp A virtuous quadrilateral to reduce our carbon footprint in everyday life, supported by poster campaigns Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT NEW PRINTING POLICY THROUGH MPS CONTRACT WITH CANON (MAGNUS PRINT) IN FRANCE  Renewal of printing equipment with the objective of:  Adopt a sustainable development approach throughout the print cycle (paper consumption, recycling consumables / printing machines ...),  Allow mobility of printing (remote smartphone delegation print, start printing on a physical site, and print documents on another site within 24hrs ...)  Secure printing via employees badge or ID,  Reduce the financial cost of our prints RESULTS :  Savings of € 37,000 in 2013 (reported for the full year) a 25% reduction in cost compared to 2012  Reduced print output by 30% or 10 pallets of paper, 100 trees, 120 Mcube water, 23,000 KwH or 3200 Kg CO2 Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 21 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT INSTALLATION OF VARIABLE SPEED DRIVES (INVERTERS) AT WEBHELP UK FALKIRK  The building at Falkirk is heated by 2 large Air Handling Units; when these units produce heat, they need a motorised fan to push the hot air from the units around the building.  Typically, these fans run at 100% speed – even when a lower speed could be efficient.  Variable Speed Drives automatically adjust the power of the fans to suit the requirements of the building.  Affinity Law – “A 20% reduction in speed = a 50% reduction in power”. RESULTS :  Savings of £20k per annum and a 27% reduction in consumption.  This equates to 190 tonnes of CO2.  The Life Expectancy of the Fans has increased. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 22 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT UPGRADES TO BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AT WEBHELP UK • A Building Management System (BMS) is a computer based control system that monitors and controls the building’s electrical equipment. • 2 UK Sites, Warrington & Derby, both had a new BMS installed. • In terms of energy management, the BMS can control, Heating, Ventilation, Air/Con, Cooling and Lighting. • It ensures that equipment is only operational when strictly necessary and prohibits heating and cooling to be used simultaneously. • It also uses external thermometers to ensure the building is at the optimum temperature for the start of the day. RESULTS :  Reduced ‘Out of Hours’ usage by 30%  Financial Savings of £32k per annum and CO2 Savings of 257 tonnes.  Improved the working environment for staff. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 23 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION/ 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPLEMENTATION OF BPACK, A MANAGEMENT TOOL FOR HANDLING PURCHASE REQUISITIONS IN 2013  Before this tool, manual management of 300 purchase requisitions per month in France.  This tool allows a computerized date processing, with follow up of the different departments and their spend, easy reporting by supplier allowing improved control, and calls for competition if necessary.  In the UK the Bribery & Ethics Policy directs all staff to complete the Corporate Hospitality Tracker on receipt of any gifts, offerings or expenditure over £75. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 25 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION/ 2013 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION WEBHELP DESIGNED A GLOBAL PROCESS OF FRAUD MANAGEMENT  Prevention deterrence. This step is to proactively reduce fraud. It consists of :  The definition and formalization of a global process of fraud management .  The development and dissemination: o User Charter recalling the rules to follow in business. o Code of ethics (in progress).  The completion of sensitization / specific training.  Conducting audits and checks.  Detection surveillance. This step is to identify potential fraud and implement measures in order to minimize or reduce the impact. It includes:  Conducting a Fraud risk mapping in different projects operated by Webhelp. This map is updated regularly.  The implementation of technical solutions or processes to monitor transactions deemed at risk. Function Correspondent Security Operations was created on projects deemed high risk.  The implementation of a number of proactive controls.  Investigations corrections. Respond at the earliest and the most effective way possible after the identification of suspected fraud. It includes:  The definition of a workflow reaction in case of fraud.  The definition of a specific alert channel so that only persons to be informed are informed. Memos were distributed to all employees to tell them what to do in cases of suspected fraud and who to contact.  The training of teams in charge of performing forensics analysis and the creation of a toolbox of analysis. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 26 KOUSSEE VANEECKE RESPONSABLE MARKETING Webhelp 161, rue de Courcelles – 75017 Paris T : +33 (0)1 44 40 51 35 kvaneecke@fr.webhelp.com MARION BARCESSAT DIRECTEUR DE PROJETS RH GROUPE Webhelp 161, rue de Courcelles – 75017 Paris T : +33 (0)1 44 40 33 51 mbarcessat@fr.webhelp.com
