Working Together for a Better Tomorrow 2013 Sustainability Report About this report Welcome to our second sustainability report. This report describes our overall sustainability approach and our efforts toward driving health and safety, enhancing employee well-being, reducing our environmental impact and contributing to community development. Since our inception, we have collaborated with our stakeholders, such as employees, customers, authorities, NGOs and communities, to shape our corporate strategy and we are confident that our growth and achievements are the result of this approach. We have chosen “Working together for a better tomorrow” as the leading theme for our 2013 sustainability report. It reflects our commitment to engage with our various stakeholders and to work together towards building a sustainable future. Our report is developed according to best international practices, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3rd Generation (G3.1) Guidelines, a highly recognized framework for reporting on economic, social, and environmental performance (please refer to the GRI application level check at the back of this report). We have also been a member of the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) since 2011. This report highlights our efforts and progress towards embracing the UNGC 10 principles, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. We strive to ensure data completeness and accuracy through a meaningful data capture and aggregation approach based on Tristar’s management systems. These management systems have been developed, implemented and are continuously improved to provide leadership with the required information. An integrated management system, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), is under implementation to synchronize various process areas employing different applications. This will provide integrated reporting tools to support operational and strategic decisions. In our continuous effort to improve the way we report, we revisited the boundary of our sustainability focus in 2013 and expanded it to capture our broader operations including Qatar, Kuwait and Oman, in addition to the UAE. This is a significant step forward in comparison with 2012. Gathering performance data and key achievements from countries other than the UAE will ultimately help us understand the bigger picture of our impacts and will guide us in the implementation of potential improvement measures for a better tomorrow. “E Y supported Tristar in the development of this report through facilitation of qualitative and quantitative data collection and assistance in the process of defining materiality. EY appreciates Tristar’s leadership commitment towards integrating sustainability into its business strategy and day to day operations. EY wishes Tristar success on their journey for sustainable development in the years to come.” Image: Tristar Leadership Summit 2 | 2013 Sustainability Report Contents 4 GCEO statement 30 Enhancing employee welfare Our GCEO reviews Tristar’s 2013 progress Creating a corporate culture founded in sustainability matters on openness, trust and mutual respect in line with our core values 5 CSO message Our CSO discusses Tristar’s future 36 Improving environmental commitments to responsible business performance operations Our efforts to reduce and mitigate the environmental impact of our operations 6 About Tristar What we do as a business, our services 42 Engaging with our communities and global reach, our strong commitment Supporting and investing in local to ethical business conduct community development projects 14 Integrating sustainability in our 46 GRI Index business Our governance framework, how we 57 Glossary of terms manage sustainability, our key stakeholders and material topics 22 Creating value for our customers Creating enduring value for our customers while ensuring we remain committed to a sustainable growth model 26 Driving health and safety Safety as a top priority in our operations Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 3 GCEO statement W elcome to the Tristar Of course this will need the support of each one of our sustainability report, stakeholders to balance short term gains and environmental for 2013. For this and social issues in day to day decision making. I remain report we have convinced that our long-term business success will greatly decided to use the theme “Working depend on our ability to implement socially and environmentally together for a better tomorrow” responsible ways to handle and deliver energy to end users. as it reflects on our commitment to As most of you are aware we are members of the UN Global conduct our business in a socially Compact (UNGC) and are guided by its 10 principles with and environmentally responsible respect to human rights, labor, environmental good practice manner. and anti-corruption. Our embracement of the UNGC principles I am particularly proud of our are highlighted in the way we operate our business in South performance in 2013 where we Sudan and other countries in Africa where all employees are accomplished another year of provided with safe and healthy work place environments. We operations with zero fatalities and zero spills. I am also proud of have implemented strict controls to ensure zero exploitation our people’s efforts in helping local communities in Africa, Asia of child labor be it by direct employment or through and Central America. subcontractors. We also have a commitment to create a work Here in the Gulf Cooperating Council (GCC), we celebrated place environment that values differences and are working on Tristar Safety Day on March 22, 2014 at our head office in some key initiatives to raise the number of female employees Dubai to reiterate our commitment to Goal Zero – no accident, and to develop and promote local employees in leadership no fatality, no harm to people, and no damage to environment. positions. We have further increased efforts to educate and Our Goal Zero is also aligned with the Dubai Police vision to develop younger generations in South Sudan since 2009 reduce deaths by road accident to zero by the year 2020. As when we funded the construction of the Yapa Primary School a major road transport logistic company we are aware of the building which is 85 kilometers from the capital city of Juba. In potential road dangers when transporting flammable products 2012, we funded four more classrooms which accommodated and we remain committed to sharing our experiences and secondary students. About 400 students continue to benefit international best practices to improve road safety in the UAE every year. Moreover, in early 2013, we donated a block of three and across the GCC. classrooms to the Gabat Primary School in Juba. The new three classrooms were able to accommodate additional 120 students We have launched a public safety campaign in collaboration making the primary school into a secondary school. with the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents or RoSPA and the Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) on promoting I would like to sign off by reiterating our commitment to being road safety for commercial heavy duty drivers. Incidentally for a responsible business and to prevent incidents such as the third straight year, 2011 to 2013, we received the RoSPA oil spills, fires or accidents that are a risk to people, the Gold award on Occupational Health and Safety. We were environment and to our stakeholders. Our strategy will be for us also recognized for our efforts in managing occupational to continue to do the right things in the right way, safely. road risk (MORR) when we received the Gold award for 2011, the MORR Trophy for 2012, and Highly Commended MORR Trophy for 2013. In 2014, we intend to make further progress in managing greenhouse gas emissions by using technology to optimize our fleet operations to record less ton miles while we deliver more volume in our daily transport operations. The progress we have made in implementing an ERP into our operations in 2014 makes me confident that we have set the right priorities for the year and beyond growing shareholder value and committing Eugene Mayne to sustainable development. 4 | 2013 Sustainability Report CSO message W elcome to the CSR Award, which validate our shared dedication to continual second edition of improvement in safety, protecting the environment, creating our sustainability innovative solutions, and supporting communities. But we know report. After the that we have more work to do. recent restructuring, I have taken We are more focused than ever on engaging with our the role of Chief Sustainability stakeholders about opportunities to enhance social, Officer (CSO), which is both a environmental and human capital while adding to the bottom privilege and an honor. I have been line and we continue to see more possibilities for collaboration fortunate to actively participate in in the coming days. Last year, we also took several steps to Tristar’s sustainability journey, as expand employee awareness and training around sustainability we have expanded our definition of to grow their knowledge of sustainability issues, sharpen their sustainability beyond philanthropy skills and inspire new, sustainable thinking across our business. to strengthening safety practices, During this time of economic challenge, we have established protecting the environment and supporting the economic vitality targets to lead our organization towards a more sustainable of the communities where we operate. future by engaging our employees, customers, suppliers, Last year, in our first sustainability report, we highlighted some and industry peers. We will continue our efforts to reduce the of the fundamentals that we believe are necessary to run our growth in fuel use by optimizing our delivery routes and efficient business responsibly. In this update, you will learn more about use of our vehicle fleet. However, the number of delivery points our progress against sustainability goals, and our achievements we serve, continues to grow even during these tough economic and challenges along our sustainability journey. We are times and we are aware of our responsibility to offset these publishing this report using the Global Reporting Initiative footprints. With the help of our strategy partner ShiftIn, we have (GRI) framework, providing more details about our strategies, developed a five year strategic plan (2013 – 2017) to further programs, progress and challenges. integrate social, economic and environmental considerations in In January 2011, Tristar became a member of the UN Global the company’s DNA. Compact. Through the partnership, we are collaborating As we move ahead, we continue to benefit from the active with industry members, authorities and NGOs to advance engagement and guidance of our stakeholders. We are sustainability in sphere of influence. I am happy to report that especially grateful for the counsel of the EY team which we have made progress on all of our sustainability objectives assisted us in the development of this report through facilitation during the last year including safety, staff well-being, customer of qualitative and quantitative data collection and defining service, business growth, commitment to ethics, waste materiality. As we broaden our understanding of sustainability management and community outreach. Our CSR steering across all of our business lines, we are seeing deeper committee, which comprises of senior leadership members, engagement among our employees, always keeping the Tristar is ensuring that sustainability issues remain part of the overall Mission in mind. We remain committed to meet the challenges business strategy. of tomorrow and build a brighter future for our coming Our focus on sustainability helps create a company where generations. safety is at the center of everything we do, employees are We invite you to provide us with your valuable feedback on this engaged, the environment is protected, and shareholders are issue and we look forward to your continued engagement in the satisfied. As we move forward, safety continues to be a major days to come. focus for us. We are proud of completing last year safely and remaining steadfast in our commitment to safety improvements with a goal of zero accidents or injuries. I am very proud to report that during 2013 we won the Shell Professional Haulier Award for MESA (Middle East and South Asia region); UK-based RoSPA (Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents) Gold Award for Occupational Health and Safety; and highly commended SCATA (Supply Chain and Transport Award) Muhammad Akber Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 5 About Tristar In this chapter About Tristar Vision, Mission and Values Our economic contribution 6 | 2013 Sustainability Report Tristar is a fully integrated liquid logistics company, headquartered in Dubai, serving major international and local petroleum and chemical companies. Tristar at a glance We have a diversified portfolio of services ranging from road transport, Headquartered in warehousing of petrochemical goods, management and operation of fuel farms, turnkey fuel operations, into-plane aviation fuel services, and ship Dubai owning and chartering for movement of petroleum and chemical products. Established in 1998, Tristar is a Limited Liability Company (LLC) that 1,688 operates in more than 13 countries in the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific employees and Central America. The company was born out of a need for road safety Operating in and today plays a vital role in raising the standards of road transport in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) by implementing international best 13 Countries practice and supporting government initiatives to prevent accidents and fatalities due to road accidents. Liquid logistic company Agility, our parent company, is publicly listed in the Kuwait and Dubai stock exchange. As a subsidiary, Tristar must comply with the highest standards of transparency and governance established by the parent company in its Code Major Shareholder of Ethics and Conduct Policy. Agility Our group expansion1 Our Achievements Start of No. of Country Services Revenue growth operations employees Won Tristar Project Silver A venture Middle East with Shell which allows us to charter UAE 1998 Road transport, warehousing, 564 six brand new ships for the long term shipping Started the implementation of the ERP Oman 2002 Road transport, Shipping 67 system Kuwait 2004 Road transport 84 Secured long-term warehousing Qatar 2005 Road transport, warehousing 12 and transportation business in UAE and Oman Asia Achieved zero fatalities in 2013 Pakistan 2009 Road transport 217 Started operations in Saudi Arabia Pacific Island Finalized long-term strategy Guam 2009 Fuel farm 34 (2017 plans) Africa Sudan 2007 Turnkey fuel supply 59 Our Challenges South Sudan 2007 Turnkey fuel supply 250 Congo 2010 Turnkey fuel supply 278 Sustaining safe operations Kenya 2009 Road transportation, lubricant 123 Political instability and insecurity in our distribution countries of operation in Africa Uganda 2008 Road transportation, lubricant 21 Development of human capital to distribution support future business lines Mauritius 2012 Shipping 8 Cost optimization Central America Increase the number of our female Haiti 2012 Turnkey fuel supply 148 employees Total 1,688 1 Shipping workforce is included in this table Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 7 Tristar Oman Tristar Kuwait Tristar Qatar Tristar Oman was established in the Tristar Kuwait was established in Tristar Qatar started its operations year 2002. Based in Muscat, Tristar 2004 to support US military bulk with Helium tanker transportation Oman is one of the leading bulk fuel deliveries to Iraq. The company in 2005, under the umbrella of its liquid road transport companies in operates a fleet of around 100 parent company Agility. In 2010, the country and is a key transporter tankers for the transportation of Tristar Qatar was established as for major international and local oil petroleum products including an independent company in Doha and gas companies. Key business Diesel and Gasoline. Presently, it and currently provides warehousing activities include the transportation has a major contract with Al-Soor and distribution services to major of bulk and packed petrochemical Fuel Marketing Company for the international oil companies as products, lubricants, crude oil, and distribution of fuels to retail outlets well as other local players. It has jet fuels. Its fleet consists of over in Kuwait. now diversified its operations from 50 vehicles including road tankers, warehousing and distribution of trailers and delivery pickups. lubricant products to handling and distribution of industrial chemicals and the road transportation of helium, ammonia and urea tankers. Our geographic footprint KUWAIT PAKISTAN QATAR UAE HAITI SAUDI ARABIA OMAN SUDAN GUAM UGANDA Fuel Supply CONGO KENYA Shipping Transport MAURITIUS Warehouse, Transport, Shipping Warehouse, Transport 8 | 2013 Sustainability Report Overview of our services Road Transport We own and operate a fleet of more than 1,000 road tankers, trailers and delivery pickups in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. The range of road transport services includes local and overland transport and distribution of bulk and packed petroleum and industrial chemicals, bulk lubricant oil supplies for marine and industrial customers, jet fuel supplies for airports, bunkering for tanker discharges, supply of ISO tanks for local and overseas shipments, and consolidated cargo services. We serve major blue-chip customers that include international oil companies and local national oil companies, including fuel logistics services for humanitarian and peacekeeping operations. Warehousing Warehousing of raw materials and finished products plays a major role within the customer’s supply chain. Tristar offers full Third Party Logistics (3PL) warehousing and distribution services for several major oil and chemical companies in managing their supply chain. We have also introduced the concept of 4PL service provider to some of our customers whereby we are managing their plants, warehouses and different sub-contractors. All warehouses are designed, built and operated to meet both local and international industry safety and environmental standards, and to run on the latest Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology. The services include, but are not limited to rack and bulk storage, customs clearance, import/export handling, distribution, inventory management, shrink wrapping and palletizing. Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 9 Overview of our services (contd) Ship owning and operating We entered the ship owning and operating business in 2004. Today, we own and operate a fleet of Medium Range (MR) tankers, coastal vessels and river barges operating in the UAE, Oman, Mauritius and Africa. River vessels are directly managed by Tristar whereas the larger vessels are under V-Ships2 Management. This support helps to ensure that our goals are achieved by being safe, reliable, efficient and compliant. Our fleet of vessels are all under charter with international and national oil companies. Fuel farm management We own and operate a petroleum fuel storage facility in the Pacific Island of Guam, which is one of the largest fuel storage facilities on US soil. The terminal has a total storage capacity of 4.2 million barrels which is spread over 237 acres of land that includes 24 tanks of varying capacities and is connected to the deepest fuel pier in Guam. Dock lines are interconnected to the other three oil berths available in Guam and to major customers, such as the Guam Power Authority and the US Military’s storage facility. The terminal offers storage for a wide range of petroleum products like jet fuels, gas oil, fuel oil and LPG. It also has truck loading facilities for the loading and unloading of LPG and white oil as well as lubricant warehouse/lay down areas. Key customers are the US Military, Shell and the Guam Power Authority. Tristar Guam is currently upgrading its system facilities to be abreast with new technological standards aiming to achieve 90% storage capacity utilization. Within Central and East Africa, we have designed and constructed a number of bulk storage facilities for customers that meet international standards and recommendations despite the remote and often challenging conditions. Turnkey fuel supply operations We have the proven capability of managing fuel depots, storing and handling of petroleum products, supplying fuels and providing into-plane aviation fuel services in some of the world’s most difficult places. As one of the major fuel providers to an international peacekeeping mission, Tristar has a robust supply chain arrangement in place to import, store, distribute, dispense and account for ground and aviation fuels and provide retail services, operating through more than 61 oil storage depots and terminals located across Central and Eastern Africa, with a storage capacity of more than 42 million liters. 2 V-Ships is a ship management company, part of V-Group Holdings which is registered in Monaco but headquartered in London, England 10 | 2013 Sustainability Report Vision, Mission and Values Our Vision, Mission and Values were further developed in 2008 and are reviewed regularly to ensure alignment to our corporate objectives and market conditions. Vision Mission Values To be a globally To develop and • Honesty, integrity and fairness in all • Develop good business relationships recognized liquid retain a qualified aspects of our business with our suppliers and in so doing, logistics company workforce to look to develop and promote our offering superior offer pre-eminent • Win and develop the loyalty of our customers by offering prompt, reliable principles to maintain long-term services without customer service, and pre-eminent service relationships with our suppliers compromising grow shareholder our core values value and respect • Respect the rights of our employees, • Protect the investments of our and commitment the communities provide good and safe conditions of shareholders and work towards to manage our in which we work and treat all employees fairly providing them acceptable returns business to the conduct our • Conduct our business in a socially • Discourage any untoward payments highest health, business. responsible manner and support while conducting our business safety and environmental health, safety and environmental standards. issues consistent with local regulation and as a good corporate citizen Our economic contribution Financial highlights for GCC operations 2.9 0.2 Community Payments to investments Our positive economic results have contributed to the government Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the countries where we operate through the generation of additional revenue Economic value 15.9 Operating 9.4 distributed Direct economic value for shareholders, taxation accrued by governments, $ generated (USD in costs Employee employment opportunities for the community and the millions, 2013) wages 32.9 (in millions) support the company provides to the local economy by and benefits 2013 engaging local suppliers and contractors. In Oman, the company has 35% local staff. This is a Revenues significant number. One of them is now the HR manager. Local suppliers Economic value retained 4.5 (in millions USD) 2013 In line with our ethics policy, we support local suppliers and give preference to sourcing local goods and services in all our contracts. Approval of a potential supplier is based on a documented evaluation of the supplier’s ability to fulfill Tristar’s operational, safety and sustainability requirements. In some cases, we face a technology gap in the availability of systems such as safety technology in the local market and are forced to procure our systems from abroad. In 2013, 42% of our procurement spending was on local suppliers. Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 11 Our business ethics We aim to be recognized as a transparent and ethical business which promotes the highest standards of ethics and legal conduct. As an affiliate of the UNGC, we are committed to adhering, implementing and promoting the 10 principles of the UNGC, which are embedded into our global modus operandi. These principles cover the areas of human rights, labor practice, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Code of conduct The code of conduct is an integral part of our corporate culture and applies to all our operations. It is used as a measure to reduce the likelihood of unethical practices, sustain our well perceived reputation and provide for fair and objective resolutions to potential unethical actions. The code of conduct also sets out our commitment to the health and well-being of our employees, as well as our understanding of equal opportunity and diversity. We encourage all our employees to report to their managers/supervisors all acts related to fraud, corruption or any other kind of misconduct that comes to their attention. Through our open door culture, our employees are free to address any misconduct to the management, including the Group CEO. 12 | 2013 Sustainability Report Policies and UNGC Principles Our actions procedures Principle 1: Businesses Our business principles require employees • Tristar sex exploitation should support and respect and contractors to respect the human rights policy the protection of internationally of other employees and the communities we • Equal opportunity proclaimed human rights work in. employment Principle 2: Make sure that they We have instituted a zero tolerance policy • Ethics policy are not complicit in human rights regarding the conduct of our employees and abuses business associates that support or engage in sexual exploitation and/or sexual abuse. It Human Rights is the responsibility of all Tristar personnel to create and maintain a working environment that fosters a culture of equality among employees at all levels of the company as detailed in our business ethics policy. Principle 3: Businesses We have defined job descriptions for each • Code of conduct should uphold the freedom of position. These job descriptions are discussed • Recruitment policy association and the effective and agreed by the employee to ensure clarity • Equal opportunity policy recognition of the right to of duties, roles and responsibilities. We do not • Health and safety policy collective bargaining employ anyone below 18 years old. • Ethics policy Principle 4: The elimination of all In accordance with our grievance procedures, • Security policy forms of forced and compulsory all employees may make an appeal on matters Labor labor affecting their status and treatment as workers. Principle 5: The effective The procedure provides clear steps to follow in abolition of child labor case the employee wishes to communicate any grievances. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Businesses should We acknowledge the environmental impact • Environmental policy support a precautionary of our business and we are committed to • Health and safety policy approach to environmental enhance our environmental performance. An • Quality policy challenges example of our commitment is the creation of Principle 8: Undertake initiatives the Environmental Improvement Teams (EIT) to promote greater environmental and their integration within the Corporate responsibility Social Responsibility Steering Committee (CSRSC) for further information please refer Principle 9: Encourage the Environment to the improving environmental performance development and diffusion section. of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Businesses should Through our policies and our code of conduct • Conflict of interest policy work against corruption in all its we have established a company culture in • Anti-corruption policy forms, including extortion and which bribery is unacceptable. Our contracts bribery with major customers comprise of clauses on business ethics, conflict of interest, record retention and the right to audit. Furthermore, purchases and contracts above certain value are subjected to necessary due diligence by Anti-corruption senior management and final approval by the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) to ensure transparency. We recorded no actions of discrimination during the reporting period. Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 13 Integrating sustainability in our business In this chapter Our strategic approach Our governance Our stakeholders Our sustainability priorities 14 | 2013 Sustainability Report Our strategic approach Since our inception, we have been growing extensively and it is our cost, growing shareholders value, and by adopting a communityambition to continue to differentiate our services while expanding minded approach to business, we will create a strong foundation for our geographic footprint. sustainable growth. This is demonstrated by the strategy map for It is our belief that by looking after our employees, ensuring safety 2013-2017 as shown below. of our operations, reducing our environmental impact, optimizing Sustain Shareholder Value Creation Outcome Grow revenue from current Optimize Costs Brand and reputation and new operations Structure Reliable & Committed Business Partner Good Corporate Citizen Customer • ‘We can do it’ • HSE ensured • Positive economic and social Value creation • End to end service • Global reason impact • Care for the environment Grow AFAL Expand Grow RT&WH as leading Rapidly expand Develop further shipping Internal into the GCC & marketing chemical Fuel Operations operation Pakistan company in operation globally Processes Africa Maintain highest standards of HSE across all operations and ensure business continuity Organizational Provide accurate Grow employee Develop the organization Create positive impact in and on time business engagement of tomorrow the community information Enablers Since the adoption of this map, a balanced scorecard addressing performance, budgets and customer service requirements. The leading and lagging Key Performance Indicators (KPI) is utilized output of these meetings is communicated across corporate to plan and manage the overall organizational performance. functions through fortnightly and weekly meetings, with the There are monthly operational meetings to review company company leadership enshrining the goals in departmental KPIs. Key objectives of the strategy map are to diversify our client portfolio for turnkey projects by targeting similar international organizations where bulk transportation and distribution is central to their operations; increase the market share of core operations (warehousing and transport) within the UAE and expand into new markets (GCC); replace the shipping fleet with younger eco vessels and expand into new business lines such as transportation of chemicals/lubricants and commercial aircraft refueling. Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 15 This will enhance our customer value proposition and enable us Integrated sustainability thinking is a key driver towards the to provide end-to-end supply chain solutions and global reach achievement of our strategic objectives. We are currently in for both our existing and potential clients. In addition, the new the process of integrating sustainability roadmap into our business lines will not only open up new markets but will also 5-year strategic plan to further integrate social, economic and allow us to compete in other specialist logistics sectors, such as environmental considerations in the company’s DNA. As part chemicals, lubricants and shipping and thus secure new contracts of this process in 2013 we started to develop a sustainability from other international and national organizations. framework based on the three main pillars: People, Planet and Profit. • Workplace safety • Zero fatalities and LTI • Recruitment, training and development People • Labor rights and social issues • Equal oppurtunity and diversity • Community development Bearable Equitable • Supporting Govt./NGOs • Customer satisfaction • Water conservation • Reach new customers/market Sustainability • Fuel/Energy conservation • Cost optimization • Waste reduction • Sound investment decisions Planet Profit • Zero environmental accidents Viable • Responsible supply chain • GHG monitoring and offsetting • Adopting best practices • Think green policy • Promoting brand image 16 | 2013 Sustainability Report Our governance Our ambition and desire to be recognized as a sustainable plans and budgets, and conduct annual audit. Except for company is directly driven by our Group Chief Executive Officer the Tristar GCEO, all board members are senior executives of (GCEO). Agility and they are all male. The GCEO sits on the Board and is responsible for the general In 2013, a Strategy Delivery Office (SDO) has been established management, supervision and control of the business and with a mandate to monitor the implementation of the corporate affairs of the company. The Board is composed of five members strategy, review management reporting and recommend strategic who hold periodic meetings, discuss and approve strategic re-alignment when necessary. Group CEO Country Operations Global Operations Corporate Functions • Oversee local UN • Chemicals strategy & • Oversee all fuel operations operation in coordination implementation including Turnkey, Aviation with COO • Responsibility over and Fuel farms COO of Fuels • Responsibility over Chemicals P&L • Best practice sharing GM DR GM Country P&L • BD coordination with BDO • Operational efficiency Congo Chemicals • Local BD in coordination • Manage Chemicals • Quality and improvement with EDO operation • Manage all country • Coordination with country • Global BD responsibility operations managers Business (except Shipping) Development • Tender preparation • Oversee local UN in • Lubricants strategy & Office -BDO • Staffed by business coordination implementation experts • Responsibility over • Responsibility over GM Country P&L Lubricants P&L • Corporate Strategy Strategy Sudan • Local BD in coordination GM AFAL • BD coordination with BDO • Performance Management Delivery with EDO • Manage Lubricants • Management reporting Office SDO • Manage all country operation • Strategic alignment operations • Coordination with country • HSE policies and managers • Oversee local fuel compliance operation in coordination Chief • Shipping strategy & • CSR strategy with COO Sustainability implementation implementation Officer CSO • Responsibility over • Responsibility over • Internal and external GM Country P&L GM Shipping P&L communications Guam • Local BD in coordination Shipping • Manage Ocean Shipping with EDO operation • Banking relations and Chief financing • Manage all country • Manage Coastal Shipping Financial & • Finance and administration operations operation Administrative • HR Officer • RT&WH strategy & • IT CFAO implementation • Procurement • Responsibility over RT&WH P&L GM RT&W • BD coordination with BDO for GCC • Manage RT&WH operations in coordination with country heads of RT&WH Tristar organizational structure Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 17 Furthermore, during 2012 and 2013, we established four Responsibility Steering Committee (CSRSC) to support the committees: the Strategy Committee, the Profitability Committee, achievements of Tristar corporate objectives and the monitoring the Suggestion Panel Committee and the Corporate Social of Tristar’s progress against targets. Frequency of Committee Members Objectives meetings Strategy • Strategy Delivery Office • To discuss pressing matters affecting the Once a month Committee • GCEO process of strategy execution • Internal Audit Manager • To monitor initiatives and performance of each business line • Group Human Resources Manager • Group Finance Manager • Chief Operating Officer Fuels • General Manager Road Transport and Warehousing Profitability • Strategy Delivery Office • To review progress against targets for Once a month Committee • Business Line heads each business line • Group Finance Manager • To identify areas of improvements • Internal Audit Manager Suggestion • Corporate Communication Manager • To review suggestions made by employees Twice a month Panel Committee • Group Human Resource Manager for implementation and monitoring their effectiveness • Group Manager HSE • Group Finance Manager • Chief Sustainability Officer Our CSRSC The CSRSC consists of nine members from different departments targets for each Tristar entity as per local needs and defining and meets once a month with the objective of identifying action plans. sustainability priorities across Tristar Group, setting sustainability The CSRSC’s main goals are as follows: • Raising employee awareness on sustainability • Encouraging employee participation and initiatives • Encouraging executive line management and employee commitment to sustainability • Collaborating with local communities and NGOs • Monitoring best practices and sustainability indicators (economic, social and environmental) • Reinforcing communication on sustainability initiatives to internal and external stakeholders • Minimizing any negative impact on the environment that might be associated with our operations • Becoming a good neighbor engaging in sustainable projects that will benefit our local communities, and • Monitoring our carbon footprints, energy consumption, waste generation, and investing to make our operations more eco-friendly 18 | 2013 Sustainability Report Our CSRSC Members: Eugene Mayne Muhammad Akber Arthur Los Banos Sapna Bhaskar Faisal Majeed Bhatti Group CEO Sponsor GM HSEQ & Sustainability, Corporate Communication Group HR Manager, Group HSE Manager, Chairman of the Committee Manager, Champion human rights Committee member Vice Chairman of the and labor standards Committee implementation across the Group Prasad Kandan Kutty Jayesh Rajasekhara Menon Abilash Kuttalil Chandran Anoop Ouseph Palatty Group IT Manager Asst. IT Manager Asst. Finance Manager HSE Officer Each committee member has clearly defined responsibilities as highlighted in the below table: CSRSC Roles and Responsibilities Member Responsibilities Group CEO Approves sustainability policies, creates initiatives, sets targets, monitors performance and provides resources. GM HSEQ & Sustainability Chairs CSRSC meetings, evaluates progress against plans, provides direction and has decision making authority. Ensures organizational alignment in the areas of human rights and labor standards while managing our social and environmental goals. Accountable for the CSR deliverables. Corporate Communication Ensures that CSR program is communicated effectively to customers, suppliers, government Manager departments, NGOs, media and other external stakeholders. Necessary liaison with NGOs and government departments for joint CSR initiatives. Organize CSR events as may be required. Acts as a coordinating hub for all CSR activities, guiding and engaging Group companies on CSR. Leads a team of CSR Champions who drive CSR at local level within Tristar entities. Chairs CSR committee in the absence of the Chairman. Group HR Manager Ensures that CSR program is communicated effectively to employees. Arranges necessary training and counseling to employees to develop a CSR culture as part of their daily operations. Group HSE Manager Provides technical advice on safety and environmental efforts to benchmark against world Committee member standards. Ensures compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, workplace safety, environmental goals, energy conservation, waste management, water use reduction, and other innovations. Team Leaders of four Reports progress of their respective teams’ initiatives. Environmental Improvement Team Committee members Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 19 Our stakeholders Continued dialogue with various stakeholder groups is our stakeholder groups, channels of communication and sustainability strategic priority and we believe that a transparent and interests. Each member completed a questionnaire and the results collaborative engagement process is an important factor for our were analyzed by our sustainability consultants. success. As part of our reporting process, we held a materiality workshop with representatives from each department to identify our key Name of stakeholder Channels of engagement Impact areas • Employee satisfaction survey • Employee’s benefits • Annual parties • Personal development plans • Quarterly safety meetings • Local hiring • Tristar planet, newsletters and website • Employee commitment and satisfaction Employee • Training and development programs • Company intranet • Contract review meetings • Business continuity • Audits • New opportunities • Dashboard/KPI meetings • Customer surveys • Customer visits and emails Customers • Board meetings • Website • Customer portal • Procurement process, policies • Energy efficient equipment • Pre-qualification audits • Health and safety certification • Supplier visits and emails Suppliers • Website • Campaigns, such as road safety awareness and blood • Impact on environment and remediation donation campaigns • Reduce security risks in countries of political • Community projects instability Communities/ • Website general public • Social media • Events • Indirect and direct economic contribution to the • Audits country/society • Road safety campaign • Collaborating toward enhancing safety Legal authorities awareness • Industry forum • Interviews • Tristar initiatives in the area of sustainability as • Broadcast key input for regional and local news items • Website Media • Social media • Attendance to events and conferences • Impact on environment • Support education and community development Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) • Annual board meetings • Financial sustainability • Economic and social stability Shareholders • Conferences • Market competition • Industry events • Cost optimization Competitors Our stakeholders, channels of engagement and impact areas 20 | 2013 Sustainability Report Our sustainability priorities The materiality process is a key tool for the development of questionnaires and ranked relevant sustainability aspects based our sustainability objectives and it is an integral part of our on their impact on the business and importance to internal sustainability approach. Materiality also ensures that our reporting and external stakeholders to determine the issues to be covered process covers stakeholders’ needs and expectations. in this report. At the beginning of our reporting cycle, employees from various Our ambition is to further enhance our materiality process departments participated in a materiality assessment workshop by inviting key external stakeholders to our annual materiality where we identified, discussed and prioritized key material issue workshop. areas. As part of the workshop, the participants completed Material issues Creating value Enhancing Improve our Engaging Driving health for our employees environmental with local and safety customer welfare performance communities Engaging with local authorities Provide road safety Road safety Safety training to enhance road training in schools safety Meet national and international Compliance health and safety standards Create a safety Encourage Employee Career culture (awareness employee engagement development and training) voluntarism Themes Continuous improvement of Enhance reputation Economic customer service and reduce sustainability and operational security risks excellence Reduce roll-over Implementing fuel risks (oil spills) Environmental efficiency initiatives by investing management and managing in operational natural resources efficiency Promote Comply with labor transparency Business ethics and human rights and business standards ethics Our material themes and issues Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 21 Creating value for our customers In this chapter Our approach Our main achievements 22 | 2013 Sustainability Report Our objective is to continue to surpass the service levels currently delivered by our competitors to clients in the oil, gas and petrochemical sector while ensuring we remain committed to a sustainable growth model. Our approach Tristar wins RoSPA Safety awards in 2013 and clients share We always strive to go beyond our The survey results were overall positive, customers’ needs by delivering excellent with service satisfaction being an area their compliments services, creating transparent and of strength and price competitiveness open client relationships and providing suggesting slight improvement. operational excellence through outstanding HSE performance and quality. Operational excellence “Congratulations again for receiving these awards. It We perceive the restriction of movement We are certified by Det Norske Veritas gives us great joy to hear such of goods and people among the various (DNV) with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and news from our partners and Middle Eastern countries as a major OHSAS 18001. We are also one of the we are very proud of you. Your concern for logistics business. In fact, the first transport companies in the region to commitment to safety is apparent existing customs and border clearance be assessed by the Safety and Quality from the consistency in excellent procedures do not support free trade and Assessment System (SQAS) of the performance.” impact our turnaround time and utilization. European Chemical Industry Council Despite these challenges, our customer (CEFIC). retention rate over the past 15 years has Our infrastructure, vehicles and ships remained at the remarkable rate of 100% undergo periodic inspection and quality and we are recognized as the partner checks in order to ensure that products of choice by major multinational and are being stored and transported safely. national oil and chemical companies. Our We have a comprehensive vehicle ongoing aim is to continue to surpass the management system in place, which service levels currently delivered by our allows us to ensure that the maintenance competitors to clients in the oil, gas and of our vehicles is performed as per Salim Al-Huthaili petrochemical sector while ensuring we manufacturers’ recommendations and Commercial Operations Manager remain committed to a sustainable growth MEPAK & SADAF they are fully compliant with applicable Shell Chemicals model. statutory requirements. Our vehicles are With the objective to benchmark ourselves also equipped with satellite-based vehicle with the industry and develop a holistic tracking system which helps us to monitor framework for operational excellence, we and continuously improve our driving performance. “I would go a step ahead to say participated in the Dubai Quality Award that it was an expected result (DQA) in 2013. The DQA is sponsored A Warehousing Management System given the focus on “safety” from by the Dubai Department of Economic (WMS) based on the latest Radio all levels of the Tristar leadership. Development and provides Tristar with a Frequency Identification (RFI) technology ‘roadmap’ to achieve excellence through helps us to manage our warehousing This  complements the decision of the adoption of best practices. operations with maximum accuracy. The selecting and retaining Tristar as In line with our focus on investing in client Oracle-based ERP stock management our partner of choice.” relations, we have developed an annual is one of the leading supply chain back customer survey called “Time Out with Our office support tools and is proficient at Customer” in 2013. The customer survey standardizing our systems and operations. is administered through an independent Our coastal and seagoing vessels management consultancy. We benchmark comply with the “Ship Inspection Report our customers’ results with other best Programme” (SIRE); a new initiative practice organizations to drive continual introduced by the Oil Companies improvement. The focus of the benchmark International Marine Forum (OCIMF). is on our four loyalty pillars: brand image Furthermore, all Tristar coastal and Bhanu Singh Nayal and reputation; product quality; price seagoing vessels are checked every Logistics Manager competitiveness; and service satisfaction. BP Middle East Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 23 six months using the OCIFM SIRE Inspection system. During 2013, all our ships passed the inspections and only minor recommendations were given, which have been addressed Some of our other achievements in 2013 are: successfully. • We commissioned the barge Gulf Star 1 in In 2013, we have posted a Technical Superintendent in the UAE Oman in September on a time charter with Shell Oman. The Tristar Pride has been relocated to (Fujairah) to oversee the coastal fleet on technical management Sohar to service our marine supply services and the continuous improvement of operational standards. agreement with Sohar Port authority. The Ship Quality Manager visits the vessels approximately • We commenced construction of an aviation fuel two times a year and also provides training for the crews if any depot in Malakal, South Sudan and have also development areas are noticed. Furthermore, both managers won an into-plane aviation contract with a major and owners have a vessel inspection plan to ensure continuous airline. improvement and high operational standards. • We secured a turnkey fuel contract in Uganda which started operations in April 2014. Our main achievements • We were also successful in securing warehousing and distribution contracts with oil majors in Oman and Dubai for a further five years Project Silver represents a great achievement for period. 2013. This is a venture with a multinational oil major • We won the following awards and recognitions which allows us to charter six brand new ships in 2013: RoSPA Trophy for Managing of Road on a long-term basis. The six MR tankers, each Risks, RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational with a capacity of 50,000 tons, have fuel efficient Health & Safety, Shell ‘Professional Haulier’ and eco-friendly designs and are scheduled to Status in Middle East and South Asia; and be delivered from the Korean shipyard in 2016. Tristar invested Supply Chain and Transport Award (SCATA) for USD200 million for the new vessels. CSR. Another important milestone in 2013 was our entry into Saudi The successful renewal of our turnkey fuel supply contract Arabia. We have entered into a Joint Venture agreement with a in South Sudan for another five-year term is a testament major UAE oil and gas company for the establishment of a liquid of our customers’ trust and confidence in our capabilities logistics operation in KSA and we are confident that this will soon and pre-eminent services. grow to be our largest fleet operation in the country. We aim to In 2014, we aim to further improve customer services by own and operate a fleet of 1,000 trucks in the Kingdom in the next adopting the Handheld Delivery Assistant tool and developing three to five years. a customer portal which will provide one window solution and real-time access to our customers about their stocks and delivery performance. Case study: Tristar Haiti acts beyond the call of duty The Tristar Haiti team went into action beyond the call of duty when it rendered defueling services to a crashed Brazilian aircraft at the international airport in the capital Port-Au-Prince on May 26, 2013. According to Haitian authorities, one of the engines of the military plane Força Aérea Brasileira caught on fire while taking off at 3 pm local time. Fortunately, there was no fatality. The Tristar operation lasted 10 hours in which the team defueled 23,050 liters from the ‘starboard side’ and 12,927 liters from the ‘port side.’ The Brazilian Force commander and other officials expressed their gratitude to the team for the timely teamwork. “Although it was not a part of contractual obligation, it is part of customer satisfaction”, explained Assistant General Manager, Prem Kumar. 24 | 2013 Sustainability Report Case study: Tristar is Shell’s ‘Professional Haulier’ Tristar UAE has been assessed and certified by Shell Markets Middle East (SMME) as its first ‘Professional Haulier’ in the Middle East and South Asia cluster for scoring above the threshold requirements of a recent Global Haulier Assessment (GHA) audit conducted by a team of Shell auditors. The GHA is a comprehensive audit tool used globally by Shell to assess the operations of its road transport hauliers and covers the following seven pillars: Driver Management, Journey Management, Vehicle Management, HSSE Management, Organizational Behavior, Customer Service and Financial Efficiency. As part of the process, all seven pillars were thoroughly reviewed over three days by a highly proficient team of SMME auditors and no gaps were found in any of the mandatory requirements. Shell has awarded Tristar as Best Haulier in 2011, 2008 and 2001. The company has been contracting with Tristar since 1998. Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 25 Driving health and safety In this chapter Our approach Our main achievements 26 | 2013 Sustainability Report Safety in our operations is top priority and a fundamental pillar of our strategic plans. Our approach Due to the nature of our business we acknowledge that certain When, despite all precautions, an incident of non-conformance employee groups, such as truck drivers, are particularly vulnerable occurs, we follow the process of detailed investigation to identify to the risk of accident and/or exposure to hazardous materials. root causes and help to eradicate and prevent repetition of similar Road accidents represent a global challenge and are particularly incidents in the future. severe in the MENA region. The World Health Organization As part of our health and safety management procedures, we (WHO) forecasts that by 2020 road crashes will be the third most enforce a strict zero-tolerance policy on alcohol and drugs common cause of premature death in the world. GCC accidents consumption accompanied by close monitoring of the drivers’ rose from 853,700 in 2011 to 945,400 in 2012 with Saudi Arabia safety behavior. topping the list with 589,258 accidents, followed by Qatar, Kuwait, Oman, UAE and Bahrain3. Safety culture Despite those challenges and our operational growth, during 2013 We believe that safety is not just a process, but it is a culture and we achieved the excellent record of zero fatalities and zero major way of life which is equally applicable both on and off the job. accidents, by efficiently managing safety performance, creating a Studies show that the majority of accidents occur as results of solid safety culture and investing in operational excellence. human behavior. Therefore, in all our countries of operation we have developed a safety culture that is embedded in the way we Safety management and reporting do business and is transmitted through awareness campaigns We manage our safety performance through world-class health and implementation of best practices. and safety management systems, and through our HSE online Keeping this fact in mind, we decided to launch a behavior-based portal which records and analyzes near-miss, violations and safety campaign by using a powerful message of “My Reason incidents. This portal allows us to perform trend analysis and for Safety… My Family”. The aim was to persuade employees to identify areas of improvements, while keeping records of any internalize safety not just as policy enforcement but for the sake of safety violations. their loved ones. We have established a Safety Committee to discuss, promote and consider policy matters in occupational health and safety within Tristar. The Safety Committee is chaired by the GCEO in the UAE and Country Heads in other areas of operations. The safety “My name is John Varghese and I am 58. I have 32 committee is composed of members from each department and years of driving experience in Dubai and the Middle has grassroots representation from drivers, workshop employees, East. I joined Tristar as a driver in 2001 and have been and warehouse personnel who are elected once a year. promoted as a driver mentor. Since my promotion, I have screened approximately 300 drivers by assessing In line with our procedure, we encourage any person witnessing their driving skills through various stringent technical safety risks and potential accidents to complete a near-miss tests adopted by the company. I have also conducted report. These reports are used to share lessons learned from around 180 in-house training sessions for drivers in the events that could have had serious results under slightly different past year covering almost 95% of the existing driving conditions. The HSEQ Manager is responsible for reviewing all the pool. I also perform in-cab coaching and mentoring of near misses and the high potential near-miss reports are shared in drivers. I am committed to creating safety awareness the Drivers’ Forum held every quarter. among our drivers and enhancing their driving skills.” We incentivize drivers to submit near-miss reports by their earning of points in the Driver League System a point scoring system which provides each driver with a personal performance report, including factors such as safety trainings, vehicle worthiness, no accidents, near miss reports, customer/public appreciations, etc. Every month we reward the top 10 drivers based on their overall score in the Driver League System. We also have the policy of Accident Free Bonus, which is given to all those drivers who complete the whole year without any accident. John Varghese Driver mentor 3 www.WHO.org Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 27 Further employee awareness initiatives include the distribution of Fleet and infrastructure efficiency the HSE handbook to our employees. The handbook presents We have invested in modern safety equipment for our vehicles, Tristar’s safety policies and procedures as well as industry best including the Rollover Warning Device (RWD) and Electronic practices to perform their job safely. Brake System (EBS) which are designed to prevent road tanker To continue promoting a safety culture, our drivers and rollover accidents and other incidents. The benefits of the rollover management are always refreshed with policies and procedures warning system implementation is substantial as transport related to HSE at our quarterly safety meetings, where safety operators can eventually create smoother driving behavior among knowledge is shared and safety performance is reviewed against their drivers, which will result in lower fuel consumption and less our targets. maintenance costs. Since 2013, all our vehicles have a Dubai Civil In line with our safety policy, all our drivers carry HSE Passport Defense approved Global Positioning System (GPS) based vehicle for ready reference. The passport contains drivers’ personal monitoring system. details, emergency contact numbers, and precautions to take in Our infrastructure and vehicles undergo constant inspection, case of untoward situations. It also contains records of trainings maintenance and quality checks in order to store and transport attended as well as any safety violations the passport holder was products safely. In 2013, we brought automation in our vehicle involved into. diagnosis system in order to detect maintenance and engine Each of our drivers has the authority and responsibility to problems along with a full employee training program in its immediately stop any work or actions that are unsafe to our application. Our reputation extends throughout our value chain, personnel, equipment or the environment. We have issued “stop surpassing the core services of road transport and warehousing. work cards” to all our employees as an empowerment tool to stop This is exemplified by our shipping division which has never or refuse any unsafe work during the course of our operations. suffered the detainment of a vessel by port inspectors. A log is also maintained at each of our locations in order to keep track of any invocation to cease work for these reasons. Our planned preventative maintenance (PPM) program is an automated system that ensures technical assets (transportation Safety risk management fleet) are maintained at their optimum condition as per Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) recommendations, ensuring As part of our contingency planning, the HSE department is prolonged operational readiness of the fleet and increased responsible for performing an annual risk assessment of all our reliability. We are also in the process of implementing the Virtual activities to identify hazards and associated risks with each job. Risk Management (VRM) system that aims to improve drivers’ Based on this assessment we have put specific measures in place attitude and behavior by creating individual profiling, customized to bring down the identified risks to reasonable levels or to stop training and coaching. activities in case risks have not been minimized. Case Study: Stop Work Card On December 5, 2013, driver Faizal Pozhath invoked his stop work authority by showing the Stop Work Card to a customer who wanted him to bring his truck into the barge using an unsafe ramp. The customer finally agreed to offload the lubricant oil drums at the dock. Hence, not a single life was harmed nor property damaged. Faizal Pozhath was subsequently recognized for his quick thinking and safe practice by Tristar’s management. He received a certificate of appreciation which was handed over by Shell’s General Manager for Downstream Road Safety. 28 | 2013 Sustainability Report Our main achievements We are proud to have an outstanding safety performance which All our coastal and seagoing vessels are regularly checked every is exemplified through our record of zero fatalities, occupational six months using the system of OCIFM SIRE Inspections. During diseases rate (ODR) and Lost Day Rate (LDR) in 2013. 2013, all our ships passed the inspections with only some minor In order to sustain this performance, we carefully record and recommendations, which we have addressed successfully. analyze the risk of potential incidents (near miss). Shipping safety records 120 Contact 7 100 Fire & Explosion 0 80 60 Spill contained on board 1 40 Spill overboard 0 20 Fatalities 0 0 UAE Qatar Kuwait Oman FAC4 1 2012 2013 Near Miss 171 Near Miss in UAE, Qatar, Kuwait and Oman 2012-2013 LTI 0 Our health and safety standards apply to all our service lines including shipping operations. One of the most significant safety Number of inspections 6 initiatives introduced by the Oil Companies International Marine 4 First Aid Case Forum (OCIMF) is the “Ship Inspection Report Programme” (SIRE). Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 29 Enhancing employee welfare In this chapter Our approach Our workforce overview Our employee well-being 30 | 2013 Sustainability Report We believe that each employee contributes directly to the growth and success of the company. We strive to engage and motivate our workforce by creating a corporate culture founded on openness, trust and mutual respect in line with our core values. Our approach We strive to engage and motivate our workforce by creating In line with our human capital policy, we continuously attempt to a corporate culture founded on openness, trust and mutual identify opportunities for improvement for our HR management respect, in line with our core values. system through the input collected from our employees through Our human capital policy is aligned with the overall corporate surveys and face-to-face interviews. policy and strategy using specific KPIs as part of a balanced Our employees can access our Integrated Management System scorecard. Our strategy consultants facilitate monthly review (IMS) portal, which hosts the company’s policies, operational sessions between HR, employee and their supervisors to processes, HSE procedures, and internal career opportunities discuss the effectiveness of our employee development plan via a shared online platform called “Tristar Planet”. and identify any skill gaps and action plans. Our workforce overview In 2013 our workforce comprised of 657 employees in the Middle Due to the nature of the business we attract significantly more East – 492 in the UAE, 85 in Kuwait, 68 in Oman and 12 in Qatar. male employees than females, therefore our female employees Our shipping operation is composed of 80 employees. amount to only six based in the UAE. Managerial staff Managerial staff Managerial staff Managerial staff 10 12 17 2 2 2 4 3 2 1 1 1 Office staff Office staff Office staff Office staff 51 64 66 17 16 5 2 2 8 0 1 1 Support staff Support staff Support staff Support staff 11 17 41 2 3 0 1 1 4 2 2 2 Field staff Field staff Field staff Field staff 312 333 368 116 72 78 57 57 54 3 5 8 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Tristar UAE, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar workforce 2011-2013 Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 31 Nationalization We strive to employ national employees. However, we are faced with several challenges, impacting our ability to achieve our Nationalization objectives. Some of these challenges include: insufficient supply of qualified national labor; heavy reliance on expatriates; competition for local talent from public sector/private companies offering better compensation; working conditions; job security; and prestige. National employees 2013 Due to the relatively small national population base in the Middle East we have a highly diverse workforce. Country Afghanistan Bangladesh Cameroon Philippines Kuwait Pakistan Palestine Sri Lanka Egypt UAE India Nepal Oman UK Total UAE 3 33 1 2 8 293 21 122 1 7 1 492 Kuwait 12 3 57 1 12 85 Oman 1 27 33 7 68 Qatar 8 2 2 12 Grand Total 3 46 1 3 2 8 385 1 23 33 129 1 21 1 657 Workforce diversity 2013 Our employee well-being Employee development We monitor the performance levels of our employees against “My name is Saif Muhammed Al-Ruwishdi. I am an departmental KPIs to assess their competencies and identify Omani citizen. I joined Tristar in November 2007 as an career development opportunities. Admin Officer, and after a few years I was promoted The company has implemented a formal performance evaluation to the position of HR Manager. Tristar Management process that periodically documents employee’s performance. supported and showed confidence in my career The purpose of this process is to ensure that employees regularly development through training and work experience. receive formal and informal feedback on their performance for Furthermore, Tristar supported my ambition to start an continual improvement. MBA program in business administration which I am In 2013, all our employees were assessed for career development currently following.” through informal and/or formal meetings. In line with our employee evaluation process and our corporate strategy, we identify employee training needs as well as development training plans. All employees have to undergo induction training after their joining and thereafter a training calendar is built into the work plan for all employees. On the job training and capacity building is an ongoing activity for field staff, including analyses of effectiveness. Extensive safety training is also given to employees to improve the health and safety of the Saif Muhammed Al-Ruwishdi working environment. The HSE departments across the Middle HR Manager Oman East assess and review technical training effectiveness and launch new classes to target focus areas. 32 | 2013 Sustainability Report In order to encourage employee engagement across the group, Avg. Tristar conducts a leadership summit every year which was Number of Country Grade Hours training attended by around 40 managers and key personnel. The main employees hours objectives of the summit revolved around the 2017 strategic Office staff 867 83 10.45 goals, ensuring that everyone understands their respective roles UAE 15.34 and responsibilities in achieving Tristar’s future goals as well as Workforce 8272 409 20.22 encouraging team building. Office staff 83 10 8.3 Oman 8.25 Workforce 476 58 8.20 “My first position with Tristar was Secretary to Training hours UAE and Oman5 the AGM for Transport Operations. That was in the summer 2006. In 2007 I was promoted as the Our shipping employees, 28 officers and 48 sailors, attended Operations Executive, one of the key staff in the BP training courses such as environmental awareness, energy account. My new position has hugely contributed to conservation, tanker safety, emergency drill and accident my professional growth in that the company gave investigation during 2013. me new responsibilities and believed in my capacity As part of our commitment to enhance employees’ skills by assigning me different roles. That exposure has and to encourage their personal development we sponsor made me explore my strengths and abilities further membership to the Toastmasters club for all of those interested. and made me realize that with great enthusiasm and The Toastmasters club is an international non-profit organization determination, nothing is impossible. During my annual that facilitates the development of public speaking and vacation last December 2013, I got a call from our AGM leadership skills. Aman Wallia, presuming there was an operational Furthermore, we leverage on the skills of our internal IT staff to issue I was pleasantly surprised to hear it was a new develop IT related courses for our office staff in Dubai. The training opportunity for me in Tristar a new assignment as the modules ranged from general computer skills, e-commerce and Account Supervisor for Linde. using Microsoft applications like Word and Excel. Finally, our Life is so challenging but the most important part of it HR team conducts English language lessons to our field staff to is the acceptance that it is a constant learning process enhance their English language proficiency. and always strives with our strong determination and faith.” Employee engagement The company has an open and transparent culture, which facilitates bottom-up communication. Strategic initiatives and objectives are communicated down to departmental levels and then shared with the respective teams6. Corporate HR policies are communicated to all employees via the employee handbook. Our newsletter “Tristar World” informs employees about our strategic initiatives, future plans, success stories and key achievements. Aurabelle U. Dian Operations Supervisor, Linde Helium ME FZCO – Account An area of improvement highlighted by employees throughout the survey was personal development plans. Therefore, we are considering redefining the existing performance appraisal system by identifying gaps and areas of improvements in order to develop improved individual Personal Development Plans (PDP) to better serve their needs. 5 Kuwait training hours are not available 6 This applies only to the management in the Middle East Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 33 Employee satisfaction The effectiveness of our HR policies and procedures, and the To ensure proper management and maintenance of our field well-being of our people are evaluated on an annual basis through staff accommodation, we employ a full time Facility Manager our employee surveys. Due to the diversity of our field personnel, who reports to the HR department. The Facility Manager’s we undertake structured interviews in four different dialects. responsibilities include promoting safety in the living space, For the management and administration teams, an online maintaining an orderly and welcoming abode, and organizing employee survey is conducted annually. Our employee results regular social events. In addition, the Facility Manager is are benchmarked both internally, from country to country, responsible for addressing employees’ complaints and and externally with other best practice organizations to drive accommodating their request when possible. continual improvement. We encourage employee engagement through several social and To retain and drive employee satisfaction, we offer attractive sports activities. For example, in 2013 we invested in gym facilities compensation and benefits in line with the standard job grading and bought table tennis equipment and chess sets. system. We also offer accommodations to our field staff as well as The satisfaction level of our workforce is reflected in a low turnover health insurance to all our full time employees. rate as shown below. To better understand why people decide to Our UAE labor accommodation conforms to the strict leave the company we conduct exit interviews7 and we have found guidelines recommended by the UAE Municipality, Civil Defense that most of our employees leave the company due to personal organizations and the Ministry of Labor. reasons such as return to their home countries. 150 100 50 0 Dubai Qatar Kuwait Oman Dubai Qatar Kuwait Oman Dubai Qatar Kuwait Oman 2011 2012 2013 New Joiner Leavers Employee turnover 2011 – 2013 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2010 2011 2012 July-2013 Better prospects Retirement Medical reason Personal reason Reasons for employee turnover UAE 7 Records of exit interviews are available only for the UAE 34 | 2013 Sustainability Report “Tristar helped me developed my self-confidence. I became more confident with myself believing that I can do it with the help and support of my second family… Tristar.” Employees at Tristar's Headquarters Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 35 Improving environmental performance In this chapter Our approach Managing natural resources Fuel efficiency 36 | 2013 Sustainability Report We acknowledge the impact of our operations on the environment and the communities living close to our activities. We have taken considerable actions to reduce and mitigate any such impact. Our approach voluntarism. The creation of these teams resulted in successes and soon We acknowledge the impact of our operations on the environment gained the full support of the CSRSC, including the GCEO. and communities living close to our activities, and have taken Performance of each EIT is monitored against a common considerable actions to reduce and mitigate any negative results. scorecard which has points related to initiatives, behavior, teamwork, engagement and overall reduction. As part of our commitment to foster this initiative, the best team was awarded for their initiatives in 2013. 48,095 Treatment and disposal of waste Managing natural resources 25,506 20,436 Personnel Water Insurance for employed for education environmental and training and for liability Water use has been growing at more than twice the rate of general environmental management population increase in the last century. The United Nations activities predicts that by 2025, about 30 countries will be water scarce, out of which 18 will be in the Middle East and North Africa8. We understand business risks and opportunities related to water scarcity and we are committed to promote responsible water management. Therefore, we have implemented several initiatives Environmental expenditure in 2013 (USD) to reduce water consumption in 2013, such as the introduction We have a well-established Environmental Management of a permit system in the UAE, which has largely reduced our System (EMS) as per ISO 14001 standards, which helps us set UAE water usage. The permit system applies to a large extent in up processes and practices to identify, evaluate and reduce the monitoring and careful management of water levels used to our environmental impact, and at the same time increase wash our vehicles. Since the inception of this initiative our water our operating efficiency. Our UAE operations are assessed consumption was significantly reduced. by the Safety and Quality Assessment System (SQAS) of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC). Our top management is committed to improve our environmental performance, which is reflected in our environmental policy. Our HSE committee oversees the effectiveness of these systems by holding frequent reviews and progress meetings in order to ensure objectives and targets are met. Our environmental improvement teams (UAE) 4000000 We believe that effective environmental management, monitoring 3500000 2012 2013 and reduction cannot be achieved without the full collaboration 3000000 of our employees. Our Environmental Improvement Teams (EIT), which were created in 2012, have made significant improvements 2500000 in 2013. The EITs are responsible for identifying and implementing 2000000 energy, oil, water and waste reduction initiatives as well as driving 1500000 behavioral change among employees. Each team is made of eight to 10 members and comprises of 1000000 a leader responsible to report achievements and targets to the 500000 CSRSC. The teams, which are cross-functional and self-managed, January February March April May June July August September October November December are encouraged to identify their own initiatives and targets. Hence, the EITs not only drive waste, fuel, energy and water reduction but also contribute towards supporting employee engagement and UAE water consumption 2012 2013 (in liters) 3 8 www.who.org www.UN.org Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 37 500 2012 400 2013 300 10000 200 9000 100 8000 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December 7000 6000 UAE UAE electricity consumption 2012 – 2013 5000 4000 3000 Kuwait 1,000,000 2000 Qatar 800,000 1000 Oman 0 600,000 Middle East water consumption (in 1000 liters) 2013 400,000 (Kuwait, Qatar, Oman and UAE) UAE Further initiatives that supported our water reduction 200,000 achievements included the development of awareness sessions Qatar conducted to reduce water consumption in the washrooms and Oman washing areas as well as monitoring water usage through flow 0 meters (only in the UAE). Middle East electricity consumption (KWT) 2013 (UAE, Oman, Qatar) Energy Our targets for 2014 include 5% reduction in electricity consumption and we aim to implement the following initiatives: The majority of our electricity consumption derives from our • Enhance employees’ awareness through campaign with posters, workshop activities in the UAE and lighting in other Middle East monthly email and quarterly Town Hall meetings offices. In all our Middle East operations we monitor consumption • Conduct feasibility study and implementation of energy efficient through daily meter readings and electricity bills. appliances. For example, we are exploring energy efficient air We have taken a number of useful steps to curtail the use of cons with different suppliers for cost and benefit analysis electrical energy in our offices and operations9. The following • Conduct an energy audit initiatives were developed in 2013 in the UAE: • Conduct a feasibility study for solar light implementation • Passive sensors have been installed in washrooms and pantries in order to avoid unnecessary use of lighting Waste • All computers have been set to minimize power usage if left unattended for 10 minutes We manage and control different waste streams generated by our activities, as per the national and international legal guidance • We have established an optimum AC setting of 24C for all and laws. Our main waste streams are: waste water, paper waste, workplace areas, which reduces the eventuality of wasteful AC settings being used food waste, tyres, printer toners, e-waste, shrink wrapping film and wooden pallets. • Employees have been educated that switching off electrical equipment at source, rather than to standby contributes to reducing energy usage Waste water • We started replacing conventional lights with light-emitting diode One of our main source of waste is water, which is either (LED) lights in our Dubai office hazardous or non-hazardous with the latter normally being • We use skylight and natural ventilation in our warehouses for the wash water from tanks after cleaning the remnants of lighting and cooling the chemicals they can carry. We dispose both streams of water through Municipality approved contractors only. 9 In Kuwait electricity charges are inclusive of facility rental and hence no data available, and no electricity meter available in the facility to verify the consumption. 38 | 2013 Sustainability Report Paper waste 10000 Paper waste is mainly generated from office operations. In 2013 9000 we installed a storage box in the common printer area with the 8000 7000 objective to reduce our paper waste (UAE only). At the end of 2013 in 1000 liters 6000 our printing trends increased due to printing requirement of the 5000 new ERP implementation and tender submission. 4000 25 3000 20 2000 15 1000 0 10 Water used Hazardous Non-hazardous waste water waste water 5 0 Water used, hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste water February September November December January October April March August May June July 2013 (UAE) Used tyre Paper Toner Used tyre is generated from our UAE workshop, where aged and non-usable tyres are removed from our vehicles. During 2013 UAE paper (reems) & toner (nos.) consumption 2013 there were 1,362 tyres sent for disposal through a local scrap tyre supplier. We are also considering installing a tyre recycling plant Food waste within our facility in Dubai. Food waste is generated from office pantries. We are conscious We have also installed a nitrogen gas tyre filling station in the that about one third of global food production (around 30 to 40%), workshop, which allows for a prolonged lifespan of the trucks’ is lost or wasted annually10 and we are committed to reduce tyres for better mileage and safety reasons. our food waste. Therefore, we have installed a food recycling machine in our head office pantry. This machine has a capacity of Waste oil processing 5 kg of food waste, which will be compressed to only Waste oil represents a large part our hazard waste. We collect 5% of its weight. The left-over from the food recycling machine used oil from our vehicles and store it in a separated tank which (fertilizer) is utilized to make a vegetable bed along the boundary is then collected by a Municipality approved waste collection wall of our head office. Currently we have planted only few types company for recycling. We implemented the following initiatives to of vegetables, such as tomato, cucumber and bitter-gourd and reduce the use of oil in our vehicles during 2013: we are planning to continue this initiative in 2014. • We have changed the engine oil grade to a superior one (from Our targets for 2014 include reduction in waste by implementing CH4 to CI4) which have longer life. following initiatives: • We have taken around 150 oil sample for lab test. We discovered • Conducting a Recycling Day event and educational programs that the interval time of engine oil service can be extended of during the year for employee awareness 5,000 km and consequently we will get additional 139 km for • Working with Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) to collect using 1 liter engine oil. waste for recycling purpose including papers, plastic, glass, 10000 cans, battery and mobile phones • Conduct feasibility of setting up tyre recycling plant • Raising awareness on E-waste Disposal Oil spills UAE During 2013 in our UAE operations we had one product spill of 4.32 MT due to a vehicle failure by a mechanical problem. Our 5000 emergency response team reached the incident site in a timely manner and provided full assistance to the authority to clean the Oman site. Furthermore, we had a minor spillage of five liters lubricant oil in Qatar. This minor spill was caused by a forklift operator who hit the drum unintentionally with a forklift blade. In order to avoid future accidents, we reviewed our maintenance system and made our vehicle suspension system check more Qatar stringent. Furthermore, we conducted additional training on 0 roll-over prevention and dedicated a quarterly safety meeting to Middle East waste oil (in liters) 2013 (UAE, Oman, Qatar) prevention of similar accidents. 10  http://www.fao.org/save-food/key-findings/en/ Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 39 Case Study: Oil spill prevention Tristar has owned and operated Lubricants barges serving oil majors in the port of Fujairah since 2010. Conscious of risks associated to these operations and the need to be ready at all times to manage emergencies such as oil spills, Tristar has for the past few years been conducting oil spill exercises with the vessels’ charterers and the vessel managers. The desktop exercise is an efficient way to ensure that all parties are aware of their roles and responsibilities in such an event. However, to handle an oil spill the biggest challenge is to deploy the containment and recovery equipment as quickly as possible on the accident/incident site and this was never previously tested. Therefore, starting 2013, we decided to conduct two annual oil spill exercises, one desktop and one with full deployment of equipment at an outer anchorage area also involving the port authorities. The first exercise was conducted in May 2013. Two of our bunker vessels, Tristar Legend and Tristar Courage had a supposed collision off Fujairah port. The Managers, the Charterers and the Port took part in the exercise. As expected, this exercise brought to evidence some areas for improvement, both on the communications between the various parties and on the operational aspects. Nevertheless, the overall application of this exercise proved to be very beneficial to those taking part and has enhanced our readiness in mitigating any future oil spill emergency situation. 40 | 2013 Sustainability Report Fuel efficiency During 2013, we strived to reduce our fuel consumption through various carbon efficiency measures. Case Study: Air conditioning service station CO2 reporting This initiative came from our workshop Through the evaluation of our carbon footprint figures, we are team who identified the Wurth A/C able to develop and implement targeted measures that allow us to service station machine. This machine reduce both fuel consumption and energy use. We acknowledge generates early warning signs in case that we cannot manage what we cannot measure. Therefore, in of any leakage of refrigerant gas that 2013 we invested to train some of our staff members in carbon might happen while conducting A/C footprint reporting and we calculated our 2013 GHG emissions for services. The machine will also recycle Tristar Head Office operation. the recovered gas and the same can be used to refill back to the A/C unit after 11 GHG servicing. Description Consumption UOM UOM Emission This will save us from discharging CFC gases to the atmosphere during A/C Electricity servicing. 848,287.08 Kwh 5938.0096 Ton consumption Km running 16,815,097 KM 2858.5665 Ton Waste disposal 1,796.72 Ton 85.935 Ton Water 1,938,900 Gallon 1357.23 Ton consumption GHG emissions 2013 (Dubai) In 2014, we will be able to calculate the reductions achieved as result of our fuel efficiency initiatives. 2013 fuel efficiency initiatives Description We developed a staff awareness campaign with the objective of improving fuel-efficient driving skills Staff awareness program among our drivers and staff members. Furthermore, as part of the Dubai-RTA car free day, we distributed Eco-Tips leaflets and educated staff on GHG emissions. We invested in improving our fuel management system by the use of OSM software in our transport Improving fuel management system operation for diesel issuance. This practice saved us approximately 5% of fuel. We have initiated a fuel tank monitoring system capable of detecting any drop or spillages of fuel. This GPS integrated fuel tank monitoring system provides immediate notification in case of spillages. As per our journey management program every effort is made to send our vehicles on the shortest and safest route for product delivery. Our scheduling department consolidates various deliveries on a single Journey Management vehicle in such a way that maximum volume can be delivered with minimum KM travelled. All our vehicles are fitted with GPS based tracking devices through which we are constantly monitoring the route, harsh braking, excess idling, and stoppage of our vehicles to improve fuel economy. All our drivers are trained to drive defensively so that they operate their vehicles smoothly in the correct Defensive Driving gear, correct RPM and correct speed to improve fuel economy. By 2014, we aim to reduce our fuel consumption by 2% implementing the following initiatives: • Measuring and controlling fuel procurement and optimum usage • Increasing awareness on fuel usage, tyre handling and maintenance • Improvising GHG emission accounting and seeking offset means • Working with authorities on green fuel projects, such as compressed natural gas (CNG) 11 Unit of measure Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 41 Engaging with our communities In this chapter Our approach Our commitment to road safety Promoting education 42 | 2013 Sustainability Report Supporting and investing in local community development is an integral part of Tristar’s approach to sustainable business. Our approach Our commitment to road safety Our social activities encourage us to behave responsibly while As a major logistics company we are fully aware of the potential improving the quality of life of our workforce, contractors and road dangers. We are proud of our safety record, and as a society at large. responsible part of the wider community, we feel that others can Our commitment towards community development is benefit from our experience. demonstrated by the scope of our community development Tristar has a strong system in place for managing occupational initiatives within the Middle East, Asia and Africa, and the actual road risk, with clear leadership and commitment from the expenditure against budget. From 2013 this has been fixed company’s senior management. We are committed to sharing at 0.5% of net profit. We have the intention to invest more on our expertise and resources to help improve road safety outside community development if there are any such opportunities which Tristar. require our immediate attention. We developed a society survey in We aim to develop our road safety activities even further by 2013 to identify opportunities for improvement. implementing a safety campaign for heavy truck drivers in the We engage with the communities in each country of operation, UAE. The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) in particular where the political environment is not stable and is going to work with us on this in 2014 with the support from the security represents a challenge for our operations. We create and Roads and Transport Authority (RTA). foster good relationships with those communities by providing RoSPA will be facilitating learning sessions for a selected jobs, basic amenities and development opportunities as well number of Tristar trainers who will then impart free of cost as building trust over many years. We believe that our excellent safety knowledge to heavy truck drivers of other transportation safety record, despite the increased risk of instability and companies using classroom sessions and on road shows. dangers of militancy in countries such as South Sudan, is a direct We have targeted heavy truck drivers for this safety campaign consequence of our positive community engagement efforts. For because they are highly vulnerable on the road and are involved in example, in South Sudan education is one of our main focus areas majority of serious accidents. Furthermore, we are also planning and so we regularly invest in improving schooling facilities (for to target schools and train 16 and 17 years old students on road further information refer to promoting education section). safety who are going to be potential drivers in a year or two. Our goal for 2014 is to adopt a more structured approach to community engagement. By developing common criteria or guidelines, we aim to enhance our community development initiatives and ensure that our community projects are in line with our current strategic approach. RoSPA is an accredited provider of Driver Certificate of Professional Competence courses for HGV and bus drivers. RoSPA uses a variety of well proven assessment tools which embrace the principles of ALARP (As Low As Reasonable Practicable) and ERICPD (Eliminate, Reduce, Isolate, Control, Personal Protective Road safety awareness Equipment, Discipline). for school children In 2013, Tristar Pakistan organized a road safety awareness session with National Highway and Motorway Police for young students of The Educators School in Karachi. The students were given gift packs and educational road safety booklets. Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 43 Collaboration with the motorway police in Pakistan Supporting a school in Karachi Tristar Pakistan, in collaboration with the National Highway and In collaboration with the non-governmental organization HANDS Motorway Police (NHMP), inaugurated Sindh’s first state-of-theKarachi Rural, our team in Pakistan financed a new classroom and art road safety training institute at our base in Karachi. Tristar has donated 50 chairs, 10 tables and 150 school bags to the Sughra provided space and necessary logistical arrangements to run this Sabir Memorial Trust School (Nodo Jokhio Village). institute successfully. The training is conducted by accredited trainers of NHMP and aims to enhance defensive driving skills. The institute will be beneficial in creating a safe driving culture in the country, in particular in the Southern region. Adopt a school in Guam Tristar Guam employees and their families volunteered in the Adopt A School Project by cleaning and repainting the V.S.A. Benavente Middle School. Our Guam team was involved in this project for its second year and the Group aims to turn this into an annual event. Other than services contributed by the Group, Promoting education Tristar donated pails of paint and cleaning materials. Promoting education in South Sudan In addition to our school in Yapa village of South Sudan which is operating since 2009 with strength of around 600 students, in 2013, we donated a block of three classrooms to the Gabat Primary School in Juba, capital of South Sudan. The three additional classrooms have been able to accommodate an additional 40 students from grades 6, 7 and 8 and have expanded Gabat Primary school to include a secondary school. 44 | 2013 Sustainability Report Project Location Description Local soup Kusina Kamalen Karidat is a local soup kitchen which has been operating for over 10 years. The kitchen's Guam kitchen goal is to serve a hot meal to the island's less fortunate residents every evening throughout the year. Sixteen staff members from the Democratic Republic of Congo and three employees from Oman donated Blood donations DRC and Oman blood in their respective localities as part of the company’s campaign to support blood donation clinics worldwide. Tristar is supporting Somen Debnath who is travelling around the world on a bicycle and is giving HIV/AIDS Bike around the UAE awareness seminars. Somen started his campaign in India on May 27, 2004 and is targeting 191 countries by world 2020. Our employees volunteered to the Adopt A Camp event held during Ramadan. Around 20 Tristar employees Adopt A Camp UAE helped pack and wrap boxes containing food and personal hygiene. The boxes were distributed in various labor camps in Dubai. This was a good opportunity to enhance employee engagement and voluntarism. World The whole Tristar global network celebrated the World Environment Day by encouraging discussion around Environment Day Tristar Network this year’s theme, Think.Eat.Save, which is an anti-food waste and food loss campaign. Some countries 2013 planted trees and implemented energy saving activities. Organized blood donation camp under the patronage of Dubai Health Authority at Tristar head office which Annual blood Tristar was attended by employees and neighboring companies. Participants also received blood donor cards from donation Headquarter the hospital to mark their contribution to this noble cause Other community development initiatives and donations in 2013 Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 45 GRI Index Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 5;7 of the organization. (F) 1. 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. (F) 5;7 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. (F) 1 Tristar 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. (F) 8–12 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including 8–12 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. (F) 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. (F) 9 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, 9 and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. (F) 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. (F) 9 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 8–12 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). (F) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. (F) 8–12 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, There were no significant structure, or ownership. (F) changes during the reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. (F) 26 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 1st January 2013 until December provided. (F) 3013 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). (F) 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) (F) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 60 (F) 3.5 Process for defining report content. (F) 23 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 2 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. (F) 46 | 2013 Sustainability Report UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary None of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). (F) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 2 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ or between organizations. (F) 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, 2 including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. (F) 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information There were no restatements provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such in 2013 re-statement. (F) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 2 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. (F) 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures GRI Index in the report. (F) 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external This report is not externally assurance for the report. (F) assured Governance, Commitment and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees 19–21 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. (F) 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body 19 is also an executive officer. (F) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 19 the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. (F) 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 19–21 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. (F) 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Proprietary information governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). (N) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 15 conflicts of interest are avoided. (F) 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, 19–21 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. (F) Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 47 UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 13 of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. (F) 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 20–21 the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. (F) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Proprietary information own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. (N) 7 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Tristar view or principle is addressed by the organization. (F) the Precautionary Principle as an application of the principles of risk assessment and risk management. Risk assessment includes hazard identification, characterization, exposure assessment and risk assessment. Risk management encompasses the identification, selection and implementation of alternative actions for addressing risk through the control of identified hazard(s) and/or exposure 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. (F) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) 1. UNGC and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which 2. Sustainability Network the organization: of Dubai Chamber • Has positions in governance bodies; 3. Dubai Quality Group • Participates in projects or committees; 4. Supply Chain and Logistics • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership Group dues; or 5. Royal Society • Views membership as strategic. (F) for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) 6. International Air Transport Association (IATA) 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. (F) 22 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 22 to engage. (F) 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 22 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. (F) 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 22 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. (F) 48 | 2013 Sustainability Report UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles Disclosure on Economic Management Approach Economic performance (F) 13 Market presence (F) 10–12 Indirect economic impacts (F) 13 Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 13 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. (F) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. (N) EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 33–36 (F) EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. (F) No financial assistance received from government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Not available compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (N) EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based 13 suppliers at significant locations of operation. (F) 6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion 34 of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. (F) EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 45–47 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. (F) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 45–47 impacts, including the extent of impacts. (F) Disclosure on Environment Management Approach Materials (F) 41 Energy (F) 40 Water (F) 39–40 Biodiversity (N) Not material as Tristar is a logistic company Emissions, effluents and waste (F) 41 Products and services (F) 11,12;39–43 Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 49 UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles Compliance (F) 39–43 Transport (F) 39–43 Overall (F) 39–43 Assessment (N) Remediation (N) Environment performance indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (N) Not available EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not available (N) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (N) Not available 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (F) 40 Tristar source electricity from the local energy authorities (DEWA, KAHRAMAA and PAEW) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 40 Tristar developed initiative (F) to improve energy efficiency. However, this year we were unable to calculate the energy saved EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (N) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. (N) 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (F) 39 The total amount of water used by Tristar is purchased from the municipality. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. (N) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (N) EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (N) EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (N) EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (N) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. (N) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (N) 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 43 (F) 50 | 2013 Sustainability Report UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (N) 7,8,9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 43 Reduction achieved as result achieved. (F) of initiatives is not available. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. (N) EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. (N) EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. (N) 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (F) 41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (F) 41–42 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (N) EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. (N) 7,8,9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 39–43 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. (F) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. (N) EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Tristar did not receive any of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with fines or non-monetary environmental laws and regulations. (F) sanctions for non-compliance with environmental law and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. (N) 7,8,9 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 39 by type. (F) Disclosure on Labor Management Approach Employment (F) 33–36 Labor/management relations (F) 36 Occupational health and safety (F) 29–31 Training and education (F) 34–35 Diversity and equal opportunity (F) 33–37 Equal remuneration for women and men (F) In line with Tristar equal opportunity policy, the company provides equal remuneration for woman and men Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 51 UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles Labor performance indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 33–34 and region, broken down by gender. (F) 6 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee 36 turnover by age group, gender, and region. (P) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 36 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. (F) LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. (N) 1,3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 14–15 Collective bargaining is not agreements. (F) allowed in GCC LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. (N) LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 29 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. (F) 1 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 31 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. (F) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. (N) LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (N) LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, 35–36 and by employee category. (F) LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 36 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. (F) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 34 and career development reviews, by gender. (F) 1,6 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 33–34 of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. (F) LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. (N) 52 | 2013 Sustainability Report UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles Disclosure on Human Rights Management Approach Investment and procurement practices (F) 14–15 Non-discrimination (F) 14–15 Freedom of association and collective bargaining (F) 14–15 Child labor (F) 14–15 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor (F) 14–15 Security practices (F) 14–15 Indigenous rights (N) Not applicable Assessment (N) Not applicable Remediation (N) Not applicable Human Rights performance indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. (N) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. (N) HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 14–15 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (F) 1,2,6 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. None (F) HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. (N) 1,2,5 HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having 13;15 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor (F) 1,2,3,4 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having 15 None of Tristar operations significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, have been identified as having and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor (F) of forced or compulsory labor Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 53 UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations (N) HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken (N) HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been 100% subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (F) HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed None and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (F) Disclosure on Social Management Approach Local communities (F) 45–47 Corruption (F) 14–15 Public policy (N) Not applicable Anti-competitive behavior (F) 14–15 Compliance (F) 14–15 Social performance indicators SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 57–60 Tristar is a logistic company; engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. therefore any programs in place (P) for assessing the impacts of operations on local communities while making decisions to exit the community is not material SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts 45–47 on local communities. (F) SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. (N) 10 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed 100% for risks related to corruption. (F) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. (N) 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (F) None SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. (N) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Zero parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. (F) 54 | 2013 Sustainability Report UN Global GRI Index Page No. Direct answer and/or reason Compact for omission Principles SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, None anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (F) SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number None of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. (F) Disclosure on Product Responsibility Management Approach Customer health and safety (F) 25–27 Product and service labelling (N) Not material for Tristar Marketing communications (N) Not material for Tristar Customer privacy (F) 25–27 Compliance (F) 25–27 Product Responsibility performance indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. (N) PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations None and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (F) PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. (N) PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. (N) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 25–27 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (F) PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. (N) PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations None and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (F) PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches None of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (F) PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws None and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. (F) Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 55 56 | 2013 Sustainability Report Glossary of terms 3PL Third Party Logistics NGO Non-Government Organization 4PL Fourth Party Logistics GCC Gulf Cooperating Council BDO Business Development Officer GPS Global Positioning System COO Chief Operating Officer ISO International Organization for Standardization CFAO Chief Financial & Administrative Officer LED Light-Emitting Diode CNG Compressed Natural Gas LLC Limited Liability Company CO2 Carbon Dioxide LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas EBS Electronic Brake System LDR Lost Day Rate EMS Environmental Management System MORR Managing Occupational Road Risk EEG Environmental Environment Group OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum CEFIC European Chemical Industry Council ODR Occupational Diseases Rate CSRSC Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Committee OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer CSO Chief Sustainability Officer PDP Personal Development Plans DNV Det Norske Veritas PPM Planned Preventative Maintenance EIT Environmental Improvement Teams RFID Radio-Frequency Identification ERP Enterprise Resource Planning RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents EY Ernst & Young RT Road Transport GCEO Group Chief Executive Officer RTA Roads and Transport Authority GDP Gross Domestic Product RWD Rollover Warning Device GM General Manager SCATA Supply Chain and Transport Award GRI Global Reporting Initiative SDO Strategy Delivery Office HSE Health, Safety and Environment SIRE Ship Inspection Report Programme GHG Greenhouse Gas SQAS Safety and Quality Assessment System IMS Integrated Management System UNGC United Nations Global Compact KM Kilometer VRM Virtual Risk Management KPI Key Performance Indicator WHO World Health Organization MR Medium Range WMS Warehousing Management System MESA Middle East and South Asia UOM Unit of Measure Working Together for a Better Tomorrow | 57 CONTACT US We welcome your feedback on our 2013 sustainability report. If you have any inquiries or if you want to learn more about our sustainability initiatives please contact: Muhammed Akber, Chief Sustainability Officer: m.akber@tristar-transport.com and/or Arthur Los Banos, Corporate Communications Manager: arthur@tristar-transport.com or Address Jebel Ali Industrial Area No. 2 PO Box 51328 Dubai, UAE Phone + 9714 8997900 Fax + 9714 8841589 Email info@tristar-group.co 58 | 2013 Sustainability Report
