CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 Dear Reader KMD has provided digital support for Denmark’s public The Global Compact provides KMD with a general sector for more than 40 years. We are therefore an framework for its CSR work. This work is coordinated by integral part of the Danish welfare state, and this forms the Company's CSR Board, chaired by the CEO and the starting point for our work on corporate social otherwise comprising the Senior Vice Presidents for responsibility (CSR). Citizen Centered Software Solutions, Sales, HR & Facility Management and Communication & Marketing. The CSR Our CSR strategy covers four main areas: digital Board issues guidelines for the Company’s CSR efforts, welfare, employees, climate & environment and supply and monitors and ensures progress on the targets set chain. In 2013, we focused on building partnerships and for the various focus areas. KMD's works council also developing projects in these four areas that support serves as a reference group for the development of CSR KMD's vision of Digital Shortcuts and its CSR strategy. work. For us, CSR is about making an active contribution, rather than presenting a barrier, to social, economic and KMD considers its overall CSR efforts to be satisfactory. environmental sustainability. This is set out in our CSR policy introduced in 2011 and our CSR strategy Best wishes launched in 2012. Lars Monrad-Gylling The starting point is KMD's position as an IT company CEO, KMD A/S with the vision of creating digital shortcuts for customers and society. As regards CSR, this means that KMD will create digital shortcuts that contribute to a richer, safer and more sustainable society. STATUTORY REPORT Our work in these four main areas is described in more detail below. This report constitutes the statutory report on corporate social responsibility for KMD A/S KMD first made a commitment to apply the UN Global pursuant to section 99a of the Danish Financial Compact's 10 principles in 2011. We are proud to Statements Act. The report provides an uphold this commitment and supported the Global overview of KMD's work as a socially Compact with a donation of USD 10,000 in 2013. responsible business. Further information about KMD's CSR efforts can be found on its website at www.kmd.dk/csr. However, that additional information does not form part of the Company’s reporting pursuant to section 99a. 25 26 DIGITAL WELFARE RESULTS IN 2013 KMD’s CSR work relating to digital welfare focused on creating a Danish version of the world’s most widely on citizen-centered services in the public sector in the used online educational resource, the much-praised areas of education, health and elderly care. KMD sees Khan Academy. real potential for digital solutions to the demographic and economic challenges facing the Danish welfare Khan Academy is a platform that enables students to model and aims to support this process in a responsible improve their skills, particularly in the natural sciences. manner. We are therefore concentrating on sharing At the heart of the platform are a number of exercises, solutions and knowledge, while remaining aware of the tests and instructional videos, which have previously challenges increased digitization may present for some been available only in English. KMD and LøkkeFonden groups in society. are in the process of translating the whole platform so that Danish students and teachers can access the entire EDUCATION Khan Academy. The digitization of schools and training for young people is a focus area for KMD, and we supported the following As of the end of 2013, a total of 427 mathematics three initiatives in 2013: videos had been recorded and uploaded to Khan Academy Denmark’s YouTube channel, and a beta HOMEWORK HELP ONLINE version of the entire platform had been launched KMD partnered with the State and University Library (da-dk.khanacademy.org/). in 2012 to establish three online homework cafés at our sites in Ballerup, Odense and Aalborg, where up to 60 DIGIGUIDES KMD employees offered help online with homework KMD joined forces with the teacher training programs assignments. We were able to provide help on more at University College Copenhagen (UCC) in 2013 to set than 1,200 occasions in 20131. up a corps of DigiGuides – teaching students with a special interest in IT and digital learning tools who can The main target group is children and young people help teachers and students with digital solutions. KMD from disadvantaged areas, who are typically unable to supplied 30 tablets and various other hardware to get help with their homework from their parents. Boys DigiGuides, and launched the KMD Education Award in particular tend not to use the physical homework for the best digital practical assignment by a teaching cafés in their local communities2. student, which will be awarded for the first time in March 2014. Besides providing help with homework, KMD also worked with the library on further developing the digital KMD will support the DigiGuides project with annual platform for the project. We also enlarged the target donations of DKK 150,000 in both 2014 and 2015. group with trials at four high schools and signed an agreement with the local government in Frederiksberg, HEALTH AND ELDERLY CARE which will be the first in the country to offer online KMD views health and elderly care as an important area homework help to all students in its area. of the welfare state where digital solutions have great potential to reduce costs and improve quality of life for KMD and the National State and University Library were both patients and the wider public. shortlisted for the best partnership in the Danish CSR Awards 2013. COMPUTER LITERACY AMONG THE ELDERLY In 2013, KMD continued its work with DaneAge – LØKKEFONDEN AND KHAN ACADEMY Denmark's largest organisation for the elderly – on an KMD has been working with LøkkeFonden – a charity e-learning program for those with limited computer founded by former prime minister Lars Løkke literacy as part of the organization’s drive to raise the Rasmussen “to bring boys back from the edge to general level of IT skills among senior citizens. The aim become useful members of society” – since 2012 is to tackle the social challenge presented by the fact that almost 400,000 senior citizens in Denmark have 1 never been online – yet 80% of communication between KMD’s employees are able to swap their normal working hours for shifts as online helpers. All of the helpers are the general public and the public sector will be digital by given introductory training and are then offered further the end of 2015. training in homework help on an ongoing basis. 2 State and University Library, Study of pupils’ opportunities for help with homework, 2010. 27 The program has been developed jointly by KMD and them being rolled out on a large scale, which is where volunteer IT teachers from DaneAge and complements the real benefits associated with digitization lie7. the thousands of IT courses the organization already runs each year. By the end of 2013, the program had KMD once again co-hosted Welfare Innovation Day attracted more than 32,000 unique users3, and 44% of together with independent think tank Mandag Morgen DaneAge’s IT workshops were using it in the classroom in 2013. or for homework assignments4. We also continued to engage users of the social media You can find more information on the cooperation Facebook, LinkedIn and Tumblr in debate and at www.aeldresagen.dk/dus-med-pc (in Danish). knowledge-sharing on digitization of the health and education sectors in two communities set up in 2012, DANISH LUNG ASSOCIATION and we created a third community to involve parents KMD began working with the Danish Lung Association more in their children's learning. These three in 2013 to draw attention to the digital support available communities now have 2,623, 6,243 and 3,268 to lung patients and lung health in general. More followers respectively on Facebook8. specifically, the partners worked on a new online patient network which enables lung patients to draw inspiration KMD again held a work experience week, giving 32 highand strength from one another. KMD donated DKK school students from around the country an opportunity 250,000 during the year and held workshops for lung to grapple with the development of IT for schools and patients and employees of the association. In addition, help make it an exciting subject with a wealth of teams of Danish celebrities, lung patients and lung applications. By opening our doors like this, we hope specialists helped raise the profile of lung health by to help stimulate interest not only in IT as a discipline taking part in the KMD IRONMAN triathlon in but also in KMD as a future employer. Copenhagen and the KMD 4:18:4 sprint triathlons in Odense, Aalborg, and Copenhagen5. In the same vein, KMD again hosted the FIRST LEGO League, a research and technology competition for ages KNOWLEDGE-SHARING 10-16. The aim of the project is to increase young KMD's analytical unit published three reports on people's interest in technology and science and digitization in 2013. These looked at the digitization encourage more of them to consider a career in of meetings in the public sector, the potential for engineering. IT solutions in kindergartens and the digitization of treatment for COPD patients6. DONATING COMPUTERS KMD continued to work with NordVirk, an organization KMD continued to focus on creating and sharing that creates jobs for young people with autism spectrum knowledge of the solutions that will be required to disorders. We donated more than 4 tons of used IT realize political ambitions for digitization of the public hardware, which was then equipped with new software sector, and to promote an active debate on how we and sold on via NordVirk’s website. want to use IT in both the public and private sectors. KMD considers its CSR work relating to digital welfare to As a member of the Digital Council, our CEO Lars be very satisfactory. Monrad-Gylling was behind two reports on the digitization of the public sector. One followed up a selfevaluation tool launched by the Digital Council in 2012 to help school principals assess their schools' digital maturity. The other drew attention to the problem that there are numerous small-scale trials of digital welfare solutions in Denmark but relatively few examples of 3 As of 7 January 2014. 4 DaneAge, Survey of IT volunteers, November 2013. 5 The KMD IRONMAN consists of a 2.4 mile swim, a 112 mile cycle ride and a 26 mile run. The KMD 4:18:4 is a 10th of the 7 full KMD IRONMAN. The reports can be found at raadet.cedi.dk. 6 8 DaneAge, Survey of IT volunteers, November 2013. As of 7 January 2014. 28 GOALS FOR 2014 EDUCATION HEALTH AND ELDERLY CARE Homework help: KMD will continue to offer help with DaneAge: KMD and DaneAge will launch a new version homework online. The goal is for KMD's employees to of their e-learning program. Another goal is for at least provide help on at least 1,200 occasions in 2014. 60% of DaneAge’s IT volunteers to use the program, and for it to have at least 25,000 users in 2014. Khan Academy: Together with LøkkeFonden, KMD will launch a full Danish version of Khan Academy. Danish Lung Association: We will launch a new online We will also work with LøkkeFonden to facilitate a major patient network for lung patients and raise awareness education conference in Denmark. of lung issues by having at least 25 people from the association take part in a KMD 4:18:4 or KMD IRONMAN DigiGuides: KMD will continue to support the project and triathlon. explore the possibility of expanding the KMD Education Award to include other university colleges in Denmark. KNOWLEDGE-SHARING KMD’s analytical unit will publish a minimum of three analyses, and we will continue to work with the Digital Council and encourage debate in our online social media communities. 29 EMPLOYEES RESULTS IN 2013 KMD wants to be an attractive workplace where DIVERSITY employees are proud of the contribution we make KMD launched a policy in 2013 for the representation to society – by virtue of both our products and our of women on the Board of Directors, including a target behavior and knowledge. of 17% by the end of 2016. We believe that we will remain strong as a company if In 2014, KMD will present a diversity policy addressing we create clear structures for our employees and give issues such as the representation of women in them scope for personal and professional development management. This diversity policy stems from an and flexibility in their working lives. As a company, we analysis of KMD's performance on classic diversity must make room for differences and have big ambitions, parameters. Our goal is for the most promising giving employees the personal freedom to achieve prospective employees in the Danish labor market common goals regardless of gender, age, religion, to choose KMD regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or sexual orientation. religion or sexual orientation. Unfortunately, the tough market conditions faced by HEALTHY EMPLOYEES KMD impacted directly on the workforce in 2013. We 2013 brought work to make our health & safety had to carry out two rounds of layoffs, resulting in 93 organisation leaner and more operational. We also took and 244 employees leaving the Company. Working action to help employees with particular ergonomic closely with the main union, we managed to halve the challenges by providing on-site physiotherapists who number of compulsory layoffs from 337 to 164 through can be booked for advice and guidance on working various schemes for voluntary layoffs and moving staff postures. No fewer than 144 employees made use around. It was important to KMD that we looked after of this resource in 2013. the employees who left, and all 164 were offered advice and guidance on job seeking and any need for coaching. As an extension of this, KMD also has a health program that gives employees access to physiotherapy, PRIDE chiropractic, reflexology and massage for occupational KMD launched a special intranet site in 2013 to provide injuries. A total of 146 employees made use of this information on KMD's contributions to the community – program in 2013. both through our product offering and through specific CSR projects such as our provision of homework help Average sickness absence was 6.4 days in 2013, online and our partnership with DaneAge9. Despite this, which is 4.4 % lower than the national average for the proportion of employees who felt proud to work for private companies. However, this is slightly higher than KMD fell from 77% in 2012 to 64%10. in 2012 (6.01 days), and KMD aims to return to that level in 2014. The general level of employee satisfaction also decreased, from 84% to 77%. This was due to the big More than 400 employees took part in the KMD 4:18:4 changes during the year, with layoffs and restructuring. and KMD IRONMAN triathlons in 2013, and training was KMD expects employee satisfaction to bounce back in organized at KMD’s sites. In addition, more than 800 2014 following the implementation of processes to make employees took part in the DHL 5x5 km relay race. employees' working day more structured. KMD considers the overall results of its CSR work in relation to employees to be satisfactory. 9 See section on digital welfare. 10 Employee satisfaction survey 2013. 30 GOALS FOR 2014 HEALTHY EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY KMD will maintain focus on a healthy workplace based KMD will introduce a diversity policy and related on its already successful sports clubs. initiatives. Special training programs for employees wanting to take part in the KMD 4:18:4 and KMD IRONMAN triathlons will continue across the business. KMD expects more than 500 employees to take part in one or more of these events. KMD will also seek to maintain low levels of sickness absence and ensure that fewer than 1% of employees are on long-term sickness absence due to stress. 31 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT RESULTS IN 2013 As one of Denmark's largest IT companies, KMD impacts to KMD's total carbon emissions from heating. DONG on the environment by consuming large amounts of Energy also identifies and verifies energy-saving energy and hardware, and by having more than 3,000 projects at KMD. employees and the country’s largest printing center. We are very aware of this, and in 2013 we were certified TRANSPORT under the international environmental management KMD worked hard to reduce carbon emissions from standard ISO 14001. Our structured approach to transport between its sites in 2013. After only minimal environmental work developed over many years had reductions in previous years, we managed to cut a positive effect on a wide range of parameters during emissions from transport between our sites by XX%. the year. KMD's environmental policy focuses on energy This was due largely to a sharper focus on employee consumption, transport and waste management, and habits, with better internal processes – including the progress was made in all three areas. introduction of improved technologies such as Microsoft Lync – reducing the need for physical meetings. ENERGY CONSUMPTION However, the use of electric cars did not have the KMD's electricity consumption totaled 29,362,963 expected effect, as the supplier of these cars and the million kWh, down 8.5% on 2012. This was due partly associated infrastructure filed for bankruptcy in June to a smaller increase in the server park than expected, 2013, after which the cars could no longer be used. and partly to the results of constant energy-saving measures. We managed to find energy savings of All in all, KMD's carbon emissions from transportation 1,676,515 kWh in 2013, and since 2008 we have made fell by 18.4% from 2,922 tons in 2012 to 2,384 tons in savings of 8,608,213 kWh, equivalent to the annual 2013. consumption of more than 1,600 detached houses11 or 28.1% of our total energy consumption in 2008. WASTE Another focus area during the year was increasing the The focus was on electricity consumption not only in recycling rate and gaining a picture of the carbon production (data and printing centers) but also in our emissions associated with the management of our waste offices, with the emphasis on employees' day-to-day as a first step in mapping our carbon footprint from electricity consumption. Employees reduced their cradle to grave. electricity consumption by 1.7% on average in 2013. In addition, our total consumption of heating fell by KMD increased the proportion of waste recycled from 802 MWh. 68.2% in 2012 to 72.2% in 2013 and is therefore very close to its target of a 5% increase in the recycling rate Thanks to the decrease in energy consumption, KMD's by 2015. This was due partly to a stronger focus on carbon emissions fell once again in 2013, continuing the sorting at source in our office buildings, resulting in trend from previous years. Emissions of CO2 from direct reduced wastage of recyclable materials12. energy consumption in 2013 totaled 10,864 tons, down 16.7% on 2012. Part of the decrease was due to Together with our waste management supplier, we have a greener overall energy mix in Denmark, but the launched a project to build a picture of the total majority was due to KMD's energy savings. There was, environmental impact from the collection and disposal however, a slight increase in carbon emissions from of the waste we generate. heating consumption due to an increase in the CO2equivalent for district heating of more than 75%. Since KMD considers the overall results of its environmental 2008, KMD has cut its carbon emissions by 38.9% from efforts to be satisfactory. 17,796 to 10,864 tons. As part of KMD's climate partnership with DONG Energy, our energy savings have been supplemented with purchases of power from offshore wind farms corresponding to KMD's total direct energy consumption, and with renewable energy certificates corresponding 12 The recycling rate excludes waste from the sites in Aalborg and Odense, which is measured by collection and not by weight. The bulk of KMD’s waste is generated at the site in 11 An average detached home with four inhabitants consumes Ballerup, Copenhagen, which is home to KMD’s printing center 5,181 kWh per year. Source: DONG Energy. and the bulk of its employees. 32 GOALS FOR 2014 CARBON EMISSIONS WASTE KMD will continue to focus on energy savings in both There will be continued focus on KMD's print data centers and offices, but still anticipates a slight consumption in office buildings. The breakthrough increase in energy consumption due to an ever larger of follow-me printing will be followed up with campaigns customer base. directly targeting employees’ print consumption as well as sorting waste at source. KMD's target is still to KMD will continue to focus on reducing employees' increase the total proportion of waste recycled by 5% transport between sites. We expect to be able to reduce by the end of 2014. our carbon footprint from transport by 10% by the end of the year. Further action will be needed to achieve ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT this, including the launch of a new intranet site KMD will continue work to assure the quality of promoting car pooling. environmental data so that we can continue the general improvement in our environmental performance seen KMD will also continue to offer employees rail cards over the past five years, and reassure our customers to reduce the cost of public transport. and partners of KMD's unwavering commitment to climate and environment issues. 33 SUPPLY CHAIN RESULTS IN 2013 Signing the UN Global Compact has committed KMD CORPORATE COMPLIANCE to 10 fundamental principles relating to protection KMD stepped up its work on regulatory compliance of human and labor rights, climate and environmental in 2013, especially with UK and US anticorruption rules issues, and anticorruption measures. This provides in light of KMD's new ownership. With assistance from KMD with a concrete framework for the requirements KPMG, KMD produced a gap analysis and a risk analysis the Company makes of itself and its suppliers. At the based on Transparency International's recommendations same time, KMD wants to keep tight control of its own to optimize the prioritization of future compliance processes to ensure that the Company complies with measures. relevant legislation and its commitments under the Global Compact, and makes requirements of its own The vast majority of KMD's activities are in Denmark, suppliers that support these commitments. which is a low-risk country, and in the IT segment, which is a low-risk sector. As KMD mainly does business PARTNERSHIPS with the public sector, however, which is a high-risk KMD implemented a new code of conduct for suppliers area, KPMG recommended that we strengthen the in 2013 based on the 10 principles of the UN Global training of customer-facing employees in anticorruption. Compact. The code will be presented to all KMD’s Besides a general introduction to compliance given to suppliers and must be signed when concluding contracts all new employees, KMD therefore developed and with KMD. The code is intended to send out a clear implemented an e-learning program on anticorruption signal that breaches of the Global Compact principles for customer-facing staff in 2013. Completion of the will not be tolerated. It is also a starting point for program is compulsory, with a pass mark of 80%. dialogue, which we will use to achieve our overall goal for supply chain management, namely that all key The introduction of a whistleblower program in 2012 has suppliers adhere to the principles of the Global Compact given all employees and members of both the Executive by the end of 2015. Board and the Board of Directors an alternative to the regular reporting pathways when reporting breaches of The procedures in the code of conduct were triggered legislation and KMD's internal rules. The whistleblower for the first time in 2013, when the Danish NGO program covers the seven key compliance areas at DanWatch raised questions in November about working KMD: anticorruption, IT security, authorizations, conditions in a number of Chinese factories supplying competition law, intellectual property rights, contractual four of our hardware suppliers. We requested additional risk management and document management/storage. information with reference to the code of conduct and, A total of five cases were reported and dealt through together with our suppliers, we discovered minor the program in 2013, compared with two in 2012. breaches on the production lines at two of the four factories. Our suppliers have all assured KMD that these KMD considers its work on CSR in the supply chain issues have been resolved or will be resolved during the to be satisfactory. first half of 2014. KMD has informed the suppliers that we will require further information on the response to these problems by the end of that period. KMD has also started working with its waste management supplier on mapping the environmental impact of the collection and disposal of the waste we generate. 34 GOALS FOR 2014 PARTNERSHIPS CORPORATE COMPLIANCE KMD will conduct a review of its CSR policies, including KMD will continue to implement the code of conduct the code of conduct for suppliers, based on the UN for suppliers, including policies and processes for the Global Compact's 10 principles. environment, human rights and anticorruption. KMD will also continue to work with suppliers to map our KMD will also continue to implement an extended environmental footprint throughout the value chain. whistleblower program that includes external stakeholders 35
