The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress The eCEOs Sdn Bhd on Sustainability 2013 The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia Contents: The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact…………..3 Foreword…………………………………………………….......4 Chapter 1: Human Rights Principles…………………………….5 Chapter 2: Labour Principles…………………………………….6 Chapter 3: Environmental Principles…………………………....7 Chapter 4: Anti-Corruption Principles………………..…………8 The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environmental Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN Assessment, Policy and Goals (Description on the relevance of specific human RIGHTS rights issues for the company (based on assessment of human rights risks). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on human rights. Principle 1: Business should support and respect eCEOs is committed to furthering the principles of UNGC in the the protection of area of human rights. We fully support and uphold the ten UNGC internationally proclaimed principles to the best of our ability in its implementation in our human rights; and daily work. Principle 2: Make sure The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 that they are not complicit an human rights abuses Implementation (Description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, address human rights risks and respond to human rights related concerns). eCEOs practice no discrimination in race, gender and religion. Our employees are made up of various nationalities such as Malaysia, Indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines and Mauritius. eCEOs provide equal treatment to all employees and is based on performance appraisal measured on specific skill-set. In adherence to the Malaysian Employment Act 1955, eCEOs employees are entitled to a paid holiday at his ordinary rate of pay on ten gazette public holidays in any one Calendar year. Further to this, eCEOs also provides 18 days of leaves comprising of annual leave and medical leave in a calendar year. Other entitled leaves includes compassionate leave, maternity leave, paternity leave and wedding leave. Apart from the above, eCEOs provides flexibility in working in terms of working place for certain cases for employees who prefers to work from home under certain conditions agreed between employees and eCEOs. eCEOs also makes sure salary and claim payment is initiated on a fixed date every month. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 Measurement of Outcomes (Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance). eCEOs has had no incidents or records of human rights violation since the initial application for the United Nations Global Compact affiliation. Considering that our employees come from diverse localities, we help them to organize and arrange their The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia accommodation during the course of their stay and work in Malaysia to make sure a smooth and safe transition. LABOUR Principle 3: Business In terms of measuring the utilization of employee’s annual and should uphold the freedom medical leaves, eCEOs have developed a human resource system of association and the that calculates and logs in all employee leaves. The respective effective recognition of employee only need to key in their leave online. the right to collective eCEOs has no record of late salary payment or reports made by bargaining; employee due to unpaid salary since our establishment on 2007. Principle 4: The The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and LABOUR Principle 6: The Assessment, Policy and Goals (Description on the relevance of labour rights for elimination of the company (i.e labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written discrimination in respect policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. of employment and occupation assessment, eCEOs provides an easily accessible and downloadable employee policy and goals handbook which is available on eCEOs yammer site. eCEOs handbook clearly defines the right accorded to an employee such as employee appointment, probation, termination of employment, working hours and other policies . Our handbook covers the policies concerning our employee’s compensation, insurance, and responsibilities. We will continue to update the handbook in order to reach the global compact goal. We encourage our employee to finish their work within timely working hour starting from 8am to 5pm daily. However, exceptions may apply to employees who stay at our client sites where they are subjected to the working hours of their respective clients. We aim to create a better working environment by having a committee team that will organize outdoor activities such as sport and recreational gatherings for eCEOs employees. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia Implementation (Description on the concrete actions taken to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations). LABOUR The following policies are covered in the handbook. All eCEOs Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom employees and their family are supported by medical insurance of association and the coverage. To eliminate forced or compulsory labour, eCEOs effective recognition of provides allowance and claims in term of mileage, broadband, the right to collective project base and stationary claim. Apart from that, we also provide bargaining; maternity and medical claim to make sure our employee stays in their best health condition. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of We implement a better working environment by organizing sporting forced and compulsory events to encourage staff to exercise at least 4 times a year to labour; improve the quality of life. We also organized gatherings comprising of annual dinner, quarterly business updates and Eid celebration Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; gatherings. All of the above expenses are fully paid by the company and to showing our appreciation toward our employees. Principle 6: The The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 elimination of discrimination in respect Measurement of Outcomes (Description of how the company monitors and of employment and evaluates performance). occupation assessment, policy and goals eCEOs have their own system of monitoring labour performance. For instance, twice in a year top management will conduct assessment skill for each employee to improve their skill development with a specified key performance index. These KPI will measure employee’s performance in transparent, formatted manner without chance of bias because it will again be presented during top management meeting which will then be further reviewed and finalized. The demographics of eCEOs employees ranges from the age of 22 to 55 years old. Our company requires individuals with different levels of experience and background to realize its goals. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 7: Business should support a Assessment, Policy and Goals (Description on the relevance of the precautionary approach to environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and environmental challenges; opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote eCEOs supports the UNGC principles on environment. Our greater environmental activities and outlook reflect our environmental commitment and responsibility; and challenges us to find ways to use energy as efficient and responsible as possible. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 of environmentally friendly technologies Implementation (Description on the concrete actions to implement environmental assessment, policy and policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. goals. Our company has committed to the preservation and well-being of the environment. eCEOS encourage the alternatives to using paper where possible such as electronic based brochures, e-mail, database, web-based, etc. We also provide each staff with energy efficient laptop. Each laptop has ENERGY STAR specification to create energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases among business and institutions. ENERGY STAR has been instrumental in reducing this energy use in order to realize significant greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 Measurement of Outcomes (Description on how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance). The initial focus of our environmentally friendly drive is on the reduction of electricity consumption and paper usage. Example includes using battery laptop during meeting times, ensuring all unnecessary lights are turned off when not in use and other small things that have helped our company to move more towards the environmentally friendly practice. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia ANTICORRUPTION ANTICORRUPTION Assessment, Policy and Goals (Description on the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risks assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its form, eCEOs carries out every business transactions in an honest and including extortion and ethical manner. We place transparency in communication high on bribery our value system to eliminate corruption and bribery. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 Implementation (Description on concrete actions to implement anti-corruption, policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. eCEOs is not complicit or involved in any legal crimes such as corruption and bribery. We institute due diligence processes in our company to promote and encourage credibility in our services. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 Measurement of outcomes (Description on how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance). At the end of every fiscal year, our company performs external audits to identify any suspicious payments or transactions which could be related to corruption and bribery. We are very strict on handling employees claim. Every receipt sent to finance for claim process must be a fully printed hardcopy receipt without any cuts on dates and venues from the original issued receipt. Any cutted receipt will be rejected and cannot be used for claim purposes. We will also conduct random calls to receipt issuer to check whether the receipt is really issued by the company or not. The eCEOs Sdn Bhd, Malaysia, 2014 The eCEOs Sdn Bhd. D-3-2 Jln.Multimedia 7/AJ Citypark i-city, 40000. Shah Alam Selangor, Malaysia
