KOZLODUY NPP PLC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Dear Friends, Kozloduy NPP turns forty this year. Looking back we find good grounds to take pride in our past. All these years prove we are able to provide safe, efficient and environmentally friendly electricity generation with guaranteed quality and security of supplies in compliance with the national and international standards. Our contribution into economy and society is indisputable. For the regulated market the Bulgarian Nuclear Power Plant provides the lowest prime cost power guaranteeing reasonable end user price. We have a solidly proven reputation of a responsible Employer that ensures safe labour conditions, relevant remuneration package and social benefits for our employees. This is of a very particular significance for this North-western region of Bulgaria where providing employment is an issue at the top of the agenda. We have to lay special emphasis on yet another important fact. With its activity in 2013 Kozloduy NPP spared the emission of 16,86 million tons of greenhouse gases. This in a most definite manner demonstrates that the further development of nuclear is one of the most efficient ways to limit global warming and climate changes. I am happy to confirm that Kozloduy NPP again declares its support for the Ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. In this Communication of Progress we describe our activities to integrate the UN Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and everyday work. We also assume the responsibility for sharing this information with our stakeholders via our communication channels. Yours sincerely, IVAN GENOV Executive Director Kozloduy NPP plc HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Kozloduy NPP plc Management, · Safety first Management representative: The with its actions seeks to create Managers give timely answers to conditions for all principles and · Commitment, mutual respect the posed questions. norms within the UN Universal and recognition · CEO visiting day weekly, each Declaration of Human rights to be · Personal responsibility and KNPP employee is entitled to observed. Implementing the honesty in work discuss with the CEO personal or adopted MANAGEMENT POLICY and the respective POLICY · Strive for perfection and business issues. STATEMENT, the Senior mastering knowledge · At regular intervals the Heads of No discrimination is tolerated at various management levels Management clearly defines its the work place concerning gender, conduct meetings with staff to commitments and priorities to ethnic or political indications. Of all discuss work, current problems and ensure highest levels of safety, employees in the Company 32% issues in order to enhance positive efficient and competitive power are women and regardless of the environment for reporting defects generation, and to maintain specificity of the industry branch and errors. certified, competent and 9,3 % of them are management motivated staff and Company's personnel at various levels. In 2011 · Access to all other managers is financial stability. Since 2013 a not limited and meeting with them the Management of the Company Code of Ethics is in place in the can be organized observing their entered into a commitment Company, aiming to specify the current work load. regarding involvement of women expected behaviour of employees on basis of the Company's in the process of management by · Opinion poll boxes are located at signing and explicit declaration in various locations around the Plant, espoused values, implementing accordance with the European enabling staff to ask the CEO the UN Global Compact universal Commission initiative. questions, express viewpoints, post principles. The Code of Ethics signals or complaints. should be observed by working on Everyone in the Company is site of KNPP external organizations entitled to freely express their · Voluntary participation in the staff as well. opinion on any issue by means of: weekly inquiry This week's question , aiming to investigate Activities and results · “Opininons Section a heading staff opinion on up-to-date for the Within the framework of the in the internal information system, Company topics Safety Culture Enhancement to raise and discuss important for · Every employee is free to be a Project Kozloduy NPP values were the employees topics and issues as member of any association with defined: well as to put questions to any regard to their interests and in Senior some of them Kozloduy NPP 4 appears to be a corporate member as well. The Company's Management conducts a policy of correct labour relations by means of setting up a common and espoused with the employees development strategy. Respect for the individual, protection the rights and interests of employees and ensure their social status are the major priority components of the Plant's Management. The policy regarding Kozloduy NPP staff development grants equal opportunities for work and professional career depending · granting tools and materials for regarding health norms and solely on their initiative, the practical classes at school requirements relating to work in professional qualification, ionizing radiation environment are · provision of paid and unpaid experience gained and personal performed. The Occupational internships qualities as well as the results Medical Centre analyses the health achieved. · encouragement for the young status of the employees, develops The Company sustains its intelligent people and proposes measures to improve continual efforts related to its Specific activities implemented the labour conditions and eliminate personnel development by: · Agreements for co-operation health risks. · Compiling individual with leading Bulgarian universities Kozloduy NPP employees can take the advantage of their own Holiday development plans; · Contracts signed with the Centre in Kranevo, the Monastery · Opportunities for internal Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for complex Gradeshnitsa , promotion via participation in 6 persons to be awarded Recreation house Shiroka recruitment procedures doctorates polyana with excellent conditions · Staff training This is organized · New Beginning from for short rest, while the Ledenika by a Training Centre of our own, Education to Employment Project Health and Recreation Complex licensed to preform initial and · Students in training offers first-class opportunities for continuous training for Company's recovery, rehabilitation and staff as well as for staff of external · Participation in the One Day recreation under permanent highly organizations performing activities Manager initiative qualified medical care and state-ofon KNPP site. · Participation in job fairs the-art equipment. Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant The Company gives the · Participation in the WANO opportunity to all its employees strives to apply the Lifelong Moscow centre initiative to attract learning principle in order to and their families to enjoy full scale young people to take part in achieve smart and sustainable varied cultural life at the House of WANO activities growth. The approaches to Culture, as well as to practice The Company has its own encourage enhancement of different sport disciplines at the Occupational Medical Centre on knowledge in the Company are: Sports and Recreation Complex. site. In the specialised for the There are more than 400 · training and further purpose premises the preliminary employees involved in the 28 sport qualification and preventive periodic medical sections at the Company. · additional paid study leave check-ups by all specialists as Concerning the special role of envisaged in Regulation No.29 · scholarships for disabled people women in social life, Kozloduy 5 NPP implements all legal forms to employees expecting mothers, the care about and support women in Company provides possibility for order to assist them to perform them to trace their condition and their maternal commitments and consult a competent obstetrician not to deprive them from their on site of the KNPP. professional development According to the internal rules opportunities. the Company supports parents Women at the Company have giving birth by a lump sum benefit. their right of a pregnancy, birth or These same rules provide for adoption leave to the extent of 410 allowances for women employees days for each child, 45 of those with reproductive problems. obligatory being before delivery. The compensations pregnant women employees get equal to 90% of their averaged daily remuneration/social security wage base for the last 24 calendar months. The Company ensures the possibility for each woman to pass free gynaecological examination on yearly basis, while those at the age beyond 35 have their free medical check-ups twice a year. For our 6 LABOUR STANDARDS The Company has in place a well labour conditions, social · staff recruitment; organized explicit human resources partnership and all other issues management policy, to ensure regarding labour and social · occurrence, modification or equal opportunities in the staff relationships in compliance with suspension of labour relations; recruitment process, in training, the legislative norms in force. · training of workers and development and motivation while The Trade Union organizations at employees. strictly observing labour law. Staff the Kozloduy NPP and the · tracking the health status of management policy is developed in Company's Management execute employees; compliance with the main an Enterprise agreement which is a objective of the Company, as warranty that the rights of · health and safe labour declared by the Management to personnel regarding labour and conditions provided, including provide safe, efficient, and insurance relations as well as the work place risk assessment and environmentally friendly electricity additional social benefits are developing preventive generation, maintaining sufficient protected. prescriptions with regard to its number of certified, excellently For the period 2013-2014 at minimizing; trained and highly motivated Kozloduy NPP Plc there is a signed · corporate social program personnel. Agreement in place, which management; There is a Branch Enterprise provides considerably more Agreement signed by the Bulgarian favourable conditions for staff in · Individual performance assessment, etc. Industrial Association of Power comparison with those specified in Engineers and the Trade unions the the Labour Code or in the Activities and results within the Power production Branch Enterprise Agreement. In the recruitment process for sector which together with the The Company's commitments Kozloduy NPP employees the Labour Code and normative with regard to the labour norms principles of the Law on Protection documents regulate the labour are clearly evident within the against Discrimination, the Law on relations, employment, incomes, following processes: Protection of Personal Data are social services, insurance relations, observed as well as the internal 7 documents and no influence is tolerated regarding national, race and ethnic belonging of job applicants, neither to their gender, age, convictions or religion. The recruitment process for the job applicants is transparent and provides access to information and results for any applicant at any stage of the procedure, all details made public on the Intranet page of the Company as well. The newly employed at the Kozloduy NPP Plc get familiarized with their rights and obligations with regard to the labour law and undergo initial training. The newly employed individuals get their job descriptions with their clearly specified responsibilities inside. The employees working in specific conditions have their working hours reduced and enjoy additional paid annual leave. The Plant interior regulations clearly define the working hours requirements, taking leaves, etc., equipment are provided. Unified and the Enterprise Agreement work place standards are explicitly bans individuals under developed taking into the age of 18 to be employed. consideration the specific activities Staff motivation surveys are of the employees. annually conducted at the All these have resulted in a steady Kozloduy NPP Plc, the results then trend towards reduction of used by the Management as working days lost due to industrial grounds to plan and implement injuries. further activities. The recently All employees are entitled to free completed survey, for example, food, social development, showed that more than 90% of the additional voluntary retirement responders assessed the level of insurance, Plant-owned lodgings in safety during execution of work case of actual necessity, etc. and health care at the Company as high . Taking into consideration work place risk assessment prescriptions are developed on regular basis in order to reduce risk and the measures implemented are closely tracked. The necessary work clothings and personal protective 8 ENVIRONMENT The Company Management gives There is a specialized permits issued by the high priority to protection of environmental unit in the nuclear environmental authorities; people's health and environment power plant which is responsible · systematically plan and report from adverse effects connected for shaping and establishing of the the implementation of with the activities implemented on corporate policy on decreasing environmental policies, objectives Kozloduy NPP plc site. negative and increasing positive and programmes; The Company's policy on effects on environment resulting environment management is from plant activities. · implement effective monitoring focused towards achieving the and supervision of processes and Activities and results: activities that could have following goals: In its capacity of an organization detrimental effect on the · preservation of the atmosphere environment; that operates nuclear facilities, and cleanness of atmospheric air; Kozloduy NPP takes continuous, · provide and maintain the · protection and management of systematic and overall control of necessary resources for prevention waters within the region of the activities, products, and and/or mitigation of undesirable Kozloduy NPP PLC; services that have detrimental effects on people and · safe management, minimization effect on the environment and environment; and utilization of non-radioactive people's health. Kozloduy NPP PLC environmental protection and · maintain and increase the waste; Company staff's competency and management is based on the · energy efficiency and following principles to: safety culture in terms of assessment of the influence of environmental protection; resources and materials used on · apply the requirements of national and European legislation · appropriately inform suppliers the environment; about the Company policy on regarding protection and · minimization of the risk management of environment; environment protection; associated with the origin of · maintain the public updated on environmental damages or · maintain compliance with the the status and measures for incidents. conditions of the Company environmental protection. 9 Kozloduy NPP PLC management is containing natural radioactivity. plant site green system. committed to maintain and That effect corresponds to the The adjacent green areas were improve environmental world trends for limiting the entirely renovated during the last management as an integral part of emissions responsible for ozone year. The entry and exit roads, the the Integrated Management layer depletion. Police Check Points, and building System of the Company. The Company effectively uses the entrances were renovated under Kozloduy NPP safety is of main natural and energy resources by Landscape Architecture Projects. priority and is subject of obtaining all necessary permits The abundance of animal and fish independent state supervision by according to the current species characteristic of the region the Bulgarian Nuclear Regulatory regulations, plans, and and typical for the Danubean Basin Agency at the Council of Ministers programmes in compliance with speaks for the well preserved and of Republic of Bulgaria, by the the best industry practices. carefully maintained Ministry of Environment and Environmental monitoring is environmentally friendly plant site. Waters, and the Ministry of Health. implemented through a set of The radioecological state of the measures for environmental environment within the region of monitoring, control of plant the plant is compliant with the releases into the atmosphere and requirements of the active hydrosphere, radioactive and legislation in the field of radiation conventional waste processing and protection. storage. Continuous radiation In 2002 Bulgaria ratified the Kyoto monitoring within the 30-km zone Protocol which is a serious step is implemented through the plant towards decreasing the emissions automated information systems of greenhouse gases. Virtually which are integrated with the Kozloduy NPP does not produce similar national system. greenhouse gases during the More than 5000 analyses of the process of electric power main environmental components generation and substantially as waters, soils, fodder, foods, etc., contributes to the preservation of were conducted the results clean environment. For instance, demonstrated that there were no during the electricity production adverse trends in result of cycle for 2013, Kozloduy NPP Kozloduy NPP operation. spared the emission of 16.86 There are more than 4000 trees million tonnes of carbon dioxide and protective vegetation within (CO2), 234 thousand tonnes of the green space of Kozloduy NPP, sulphur dioxide (SO2), 21 thousand spreading on more than 450 000 tonnes of nitrogen oxides (NOX), square metres. Continuous care is and 3 thousand tonnes of ashes being taken for maintaining the 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY Kozloduy NPP PLC opposes all Activities and results: 10 UN Global Compact Principles in forms of company or public the field of human rights, labour Opposition to the corrupt corrupt practices in compliance practices is a responsibility of each standards, and place with the UN Anti-corruption environmental and anti-corruption employee of the Company. The Convention to which the Republic issues as a basis of their plans and Company has established clear of Bulgaria is a party since 2006. daily activities towards rules and preventive control of Intolerance of and opposition to possible abuse or corruption. Some achievement of sustainable and the corrupt practices is a harmonious future development of of the measures taken by the responsibility of each employee of the Company and society as a Company are as follows: the Company. Therefore, the whole. • precise and transparent Company has established rules, regulations for donations; political preventive measures are parties are not donated; implemented, misuse and • strict accountancy subject to corruption risks are managed. The internal and external audits; Code of Ethics of Kozloduy NPP plc covers specific policies for conflict • the Company has restricted its of interest, personal benefits and cash payments to a minimum, no gifts, fair and equal attitude cash register is used, and payments towards suppliers in compliance are received only by bank with the Global Compact transfers; cash payment sums for principles. our suppliers are limited; Investigations, law cases, or other • Company employees are well relevant events connected with informed about anti-corruption corruption and bribery are issues. conducted according to the Kozloduy NPP PLC senior requirements of the legislation and management extend their own and company documents. their employees' reassurance and commitment to further apply the 11
