20 13 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Responsibility We want to grow and we care about how we do it. Content 3 Foreword 4 About Arla 6Responsible company 18Confidence in products Business principles 8 Food safety 20 Operational principles 10 Food and health 22 Procurement 12 Case study 24 Market conduct 14 Case study 16 34 Respectful relations 26 Workplace 36 Community relations 38 Case study 40 Human rights 42 Care for the environment and animal welfare Environment and climate 28 Case study 30 Agriculture 32 44 Reference to Global Compact Which market is mentioned where? Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and figures in this report cover Arla Foods’ fully owned dairy companies in 2013. Some examples from fully owned subsidiaries and joint venture dairy companies are also included. The report’s chapters correspond to the 11 areas of Arla Foods Corporate Social Responsibility Code of Conduct, which was first published in the spring of 2008. More information is available at www.arla.com. ©Arla Foods amba, 2014 Project coordinator: Arla Foods Production management: Anna Michélsen Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Graphic design: Waldton Design Graphic production: Formalix Translations: Amesto Translations and TextMinded Photography: Thomas Carlgren, 2 Mikkel Bache (10), Pernille Tofte (17), NoGoStudio (38) and Arla’s archive Printing: Scanprint A/S, 2014 Email: csr@arlafoods.com We want to grow and we care about how we do it. We address ethical and quality matters in a sustainable and responsible manner, to safeguard the company’s reputation, profitability and growth. O U R RES PO N S I B I L I T Y 2 013 Working responsibly in Arla The Code of Conduct governs Arla’s responsibility work Arla’s principles for ethics and sustainable development are contained in Our Responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct. Arla’s Board of Directors approved the Code of Conduct and it is now available in eight languages and can be downloaded from www.arla.com. The Code serves as both a tool and a compass, guiding us on how we should behave and take responsibility within our business. Responsibility through our entire value chain Arla strives to work in a responsible manner throughout its entire value chain, from the work at the farms, through to operations and distribution, even including recycling of packaging material. Organisation and embedding the culture To ensure commitment to the Code internally, we have established a CSR committee with our CEO as chairman and with representatives from the senior management team. The committee prioritises the areas that need additional focus to ensure the company’s commitment to responsibility for the long term. A holistic approach The 11 areas that the Code describes are the ones covered in this report, from business principles to human rights. We have chosen to group these areas under the four themes: Responsible company, Confidence in products, Care for the environment and animal welfare and Respectful relations. Welcome to our 2013 Corporate Responsibility report Arla is a global company. Each of our business groups deliver content and material to this annual report. The report describes how we are succeeding in our work with responsibility and also gives us the opportunity to readdress, and clarify, the areas on which we need to focus in the future. OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Sustainability and profitability go hand in hand Our democratic structure has been reviewed in light of a growing number of owners from an increasing number of countries. This has resulted in a model that better satisfies the interests of all our owners. The impending adaptation of regulations and adjustment of our owner payment models will also ensure the equal treatment of all Arla farmers. The development of the democratic structure is a good example of working collaborately, which is a characteristic of the second cornerstone: cooperative. The two remaining cornerstones are healthy and natural, and we have increased our focus on health and continued our development of natural products during 2013. Arla supports Global Compact Six years ago, Arla joined the United Nations’ Global Compact, a global initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to aligning the 10 basic principles More owners, more colleagues, new of the Global Compact to our corporate culture and strategies, facilities and new markets. We continue and communicating these to our colleagues, owners, suppliers, partners and the world around us. to grow, and we care about how we grow. In this report, which is part of this work, we present a selection A responsible approach is a prerequisite of the initiatives that have taken place during the past year. This report also forms part of Arla’s Annual Report 2013 which is for Arla’s long-term success. available to download at www.arla.com. In 2013, Arla laid the foundations for continued growth, something Our focus going forward for which we have long been striving. Previously merged companies Our new vision, mission and strategy for Arla, which were are now integrated into the organisation, milk volumes have presented at the beginning of the year, have evolved from words increased and, at the turn of the year, we welcomed more farmer to action. By being clear about what we’re doing and why we’re owners. Furthermore, we have succeeded in increasing the doing it, we are achieving our goals more easily. amount we pay our owners for their milk. Equally as important Health will continue to be important to us, as will continuing as these achievements is that we have continued to work our environmental work, particularly further improvements in responsibly. sustainable dairy farming. We also have plans to develop a global initiative for community involvement that the whole of Arla can Progress in sustainability and responsibility collectively embrace. Furthermore, we will, in the coming year, This year is the seventh year that we are presenting a sustainability assess our global performance against the United Nations’ Guiding report at group level. Over the years, our responsibility efforts principles for Human Rights. have evolved and now naturally form part of daily life at Arla. In all areas of responsibility, we want to be as open and Responsible is one of the four cornerstones in our identity, transparent as possible. On-going dialogue with all our and we will continue to work to strengthen and broaden the stakeholders is important, and we will strive to communicate with understanding of what this area means to us. We are also applying ever more clarity what we are doing and how and whether we are this holistic approach as we expand into new markets and when we delivering on the commitments we have made. open new facilities. May we take this opportunity to thank you for your interest As this year’s report demonstrates, our efforts in relation to in following Arla’s development towards becoming an even more processes, procedures and monitoring have become increasingly responsible company. standardised and global and, as a result, transparency within our business is increasing. Procedures for evaluating suppliers, tools Aarhus, Denmark, February 2014 to ensure food safety and the implementation of the Arlagården® quality programme in more countries are just three examples. We have also taken a more global approach with our management training programmes and we strive to increase the diversity of our workforce when recruiting. Peder Tuborgh, CEO 3 O U R RES PO N S I B I L I T Y 2 013 About Arla Arla Foods is a global dairy group and cooperative owned by dairy farmers in Sweden, Denmark, UK, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. Our products are sold under well-known brands in more than 100 countries. We have production facilities in 11 countries and sales offices in 30. Arla is the world’s sixth largest dairy company and the world’s largest supplier of organic dairy products. New vision, mission and strategy for dairy products. Arla has also implemented a series of internal In January 2013, Arla presented its new vision, mission and strategy. cost-saving measures in order to improve the potential to raise the Arla’s new vision reads: Creating the future of dairy to bring health milk price. and inspiration to the world, naturally. Our mission clarifies our purpose, which is to secure the highest value for our farmers’ milk New democratic structure while creating opportunities for their growth. At the start of the year, the Board of Representatives – Arla’s most Strategy 2017 outlines Arla’s increased focus in Russia, China, the senior decision-making body – voted to introduce a new model Middle East and Africa and its aim to double the sale of ingredients for the democratic membership organisation. Key changes are the to the food industry. Innovation and profitability are the key areas of revised distribution of seats within the Board of Representatives, focus for Arla’s core markets in Northern Europe. fewer members on the Board of Directors, and the introduction of national councils as sub-committees to the Board. Larger companies and more owners In Northern Europe, Arla has focused on streamlining production Quality assured and sustainable milk production and integrating new businesses in Germany and the UK. In Pronsfeld, Arla is continuing its focus on high quality milk and sustainable Germany, an already large facility has been extended to handle milk milk production. The Arlagården® quality programme, which has powder and butter and, at the end of the year, the world’s largest been in place in Denmark and Sweden for the last decade, has now fresh milk dairy began production just outside London in Aylesbury, been introduced in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. Starting UK. At the turn of the year 2014, Arla welcomed approximately in 2014, Arlagården® will also be adopted by the British owners. 1,300 new owners from the UK, increasing security of access to In addition, there have been continued efforts to develop a strategy raw milk in this key market. for sustainable milk production. This new strategy will be presented in 2014. Higher milk price for owners During 2013, the overall milk price increased by DKK 0.34 compared to 2012. This increase was possible due to increased global demand Owners Net revenue Profit for the year Arla Foods is an agricultural cooperative owned DKK 73.6 billion (EUR 9.86 billion), of which 71 per DKK 2.2 billion (EUR 295 million). by 12,629 dairy farmers in Sweden, Denmark, UK, cent comes from our core markets of UK, Sweden, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. Germany, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands. Raw milk in million of kilos Denmark  4,508 Management Number of colleagues, average full time employed UK 3,580 Chairman: Åke Hantoft Denmark  7,503 Sweden 2,016 Vice chairman: Jan Toft Nørgaard UK 3,852 Germany 1,547 CEO: Peder Tuborgh Sweden 3,466 Finland 275 Vice CEO: Povl Krogsgaard Germany 1,865 Belgium 253 Netherlands 301 Netherlands 220 Finland  297 Luxembourg111 Saudi Arabia 808 Other countries 166 Eastern Europe 496 Total  12,676 North America 426 Other countries 563 Total 19,577 4 OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Revenue by market Organisation of the Arla group Others 11.6% UK 26.1% Value markets 6.3% Executive Board Growth markets 10.6% Netherlands 2.2% Sweden Corporate Supply Chain Corporate Affairs Finland 3.6% 15.8% Denmark 8.9% Germany 14.9% Corporate Human Resources Corporate Finance & IT Arla’s total revenue has increased by 16.6 per cent since 2012. Global Categories Consumer Consumer Subsidiaries & Operations International UK Revenue by product group Consumer Consumer Consumer Germany & Other products 7.9% Denmark Sweden Netherlands Whey products 3.4% Powder products 9.5% Corporate Supply Chain handles contact with owners, global supply chain efficiency, global procurement and Fresh Butter and products investments under the management of Povl Krogsgaard. spreads 13.0% 42.8% Corporate Affairs comprises group development and communication under the management of Peder Tuborgh. Cheese 23.4% Corporate Human Resources handles colleague and organisational development matters for the whole group under the management of Ola Arvidsson. Powder products have increased their contribution Corporate Finance & IT handles finance, IT and legal affairs under the management of Frederik Lotz. to Arla’s total revenue, reflecting the development on the global dairy market. Consumer Business Groups are responsible for the production of fresh produce, logistics, marketing and sales of Arla products in their respective markets. Consumer Denmark, under the management of Peter Giørtz-Carlsen. Consumer Sweden, also including Finland, under the management of Christer Åberg, until July 2013, followed by Henri De Sauvage from December 1, 2013. Milk price Consumer UK, under the management of Peter Lauritzen. DKK Consumer Germany & Netherlands, under the management of Tim Ørting Jørgensen. 3.0 Consumer International, including countries outside core markets, under the management of Finn S Hansen. Global Categories & Operations has general responsibility for Arla’s three global brands – Arla®, Lurpak® and 2.5 Castello® – and responsibility for global innovation, quality and environment. This business area also handles 2.0 milk planning and logistics, industrial sales, production of cheese, butter and spreads and milk powder in Scandinavia, as well as production of cheese in Germany (formerly Allgäuland) under the management 1.5 of Jais Valeur. 1.0 0.5 Subsidiaries wholly owned by Arla: Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby Foods, Cocio and Dairy Fruit. 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The diagram shows the average price per kilo of milk paid to owners during the year, including Owner democracy supplementary payments. Germany, Belgium and Denmark Sweden UK Luxembourg 15,000 3,168 owners 3,385 owners 2,815 owners 3,261 owners Owners in Arla 12,000 Denmark and Sweden 53 district councils Germany, Belgium, 9,000 Luxembourg and UK Denmark and Sweden Local organisations 6,000 6 regions 3,000 The Board of Representatives 165 members and 12 employee representatives 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 The Board of Directors Germany Luxembourg 15 members and 4 employee representatives Sweden Belgium Denmark UK The chart shows the number of members/owners on December 31, 2013, including the 1,291 new British owners. For the year 2013, the diagram shows the number All elections and polls are held according to the ‘one member, one vote’ principle. The Board of Representatives is of owners, including the 1,291 new British owners. Arla’s top decision-making body. Compared to December 2012, this is an increase of three per cent. 5 Responsible company Is it possible to run a profitable business ethically? At Arla, the answer is a resounding YES. But it’s not something that simply happens. It takes know-how, will power and hard work. 6 Business principles Arla is an international business as well as a dairy cooperative owned by farmers in Denmark, Sweden, Great Britain, Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. We comply with local legislation in all the countries in which we operate and we are also committed to the principles contained within our Code of Conduct. This enables us to act credibly and with integrity and sets a good example of responsible business conduct. See page 8. Operational principles Arla will create value for its owners. In the democratically governed farmer cooperative, all owners have an opportunity to influence significant decisions. Owners elect representatives to the company’s governing bodies. The Board of Directors is responsible for making decisions about the company’s general strategies and for ensuring that the company is managed with the cooperative owners’ best interests in mind. See page 10. Procurement Arla sources goods and services across the world. Our ambition is for our suppliers to meet our code of conduct for suppliers, which governs ethical, social and environmental responsibilities. We encourage them to support us to meet our aim of procuring goods and services in a sustainable manner. See page 12. Market conduct We must constantly adapt to the increasingly competitive, fast-moving and international marketplace. It is essential that consumers trust us if we are to sell our products. By acting responsibly, communicating openly and maintaining an ongoing dialogue with customers, consumers and other stakeholders, we create the right conditions for trust. See page 14. The photograph shows the Pronsfeld site in Germany. 7 We act credibly and with integrity in all of our operations. BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Fair business and good citizenship • Strengthened foundation for compliance The compliance and control culture in Arla As Arla grows one of the challenges we face is ensuring that our • New gender balance legislation ethical values and Arla’s Code of Conduct are adopted in new • Support for Global Compact parts of the company. Standardised global processes and a sound foundation from which to make decisions are also prerequisites Focus on competition law compliance for being able to act responsibly as an increasingly global business. Arla is committed to meeting or exceeding all applicable laws, rules Arla is constantly working to enhance its control mechanisms as and regulations in force in the countries in which we are active. it grows. Internal controls that begin at the top of the organisation Therefore, compliance is an important part of our commitment to and span the various business groups serve to increase being a responsible business. transparency and minimise our exposure to risk. These controls One element is our compliance with competition laws. Arla has will add value to our business and ensure that we maintain our implemented a compliance policy and systematically trains relevant commitment to comply with our business principles. colleagues globally. The compliance training materials and tools are As part of this strong control culture in Arla, the Global Risk continually updated and we have increased the amount of training and Compliance function has visited companies within Arla to we conduct over the years. During 2013, more than 570 colleagues verify compliance with the internal control framework, internal have participated in the face-to-face training. Arla’s commitment guidelines and policies. The conclusions from the visits have to competition law compliance is undisputed. However, the pace been communicated and formalised in reports to the Executive of the group’s expansion across several legal jurisdictions inevitably Management Group and are reported annually to the Board of puts pressure on the implementation of the competition law Directors. compliance programme. For this reason, in 2013, we decided In 2013, we increased our efforts to strengthen our to increase our level of ambition in respect of competition compliance and control culture with the following measures: law compliance training and activities, and to strengthen the Establishment of a Compliance and Control Committee foundation elements of the compliance programme. As part of this whose purpose is to ensure that Arla maintains its commitment to exercise a global Compliance Manager has been appointed. remain compliant as we continue to grow globally. 8 B USINE SS PRINC IPL E S | OUR RE SPONSIBIL ITY 2 0 1 3 Launch of a Global Anti-fraud Policy. During its targets for 2017 to meet the requirements of the new legislation. implementation, fraud inspections of companies within Arla were In our 2013 annual report we report in accordance with this. The conducted to verify compliance. target for gender composition in the Board of Directors will be Creation of a Global Fraud Response Plan that clarifies the decided in a long-term process by the Board during 2014. For responsibilities of managers in Arla. more information on diversity and inclusion and gender targets, Launch of Fraud Awareness Programme to continue please see page 42. awareness training for colleagues as an essential element in effectively communicating the company’s antifraud position and Arla’s support for Global Compact fraud related policies. Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct complements the 10 basic principles The work on strengthening the antifraud culture in Arla has only of the UN Global Compact initiative. As a participant of Global begun recently and will be supported by further activities in 2014. Compact, Arla undertakes to incorporate this initiative and its principles in its strategy and company culture and to communicate New legislation for gender balance this commitment to colleagues, owners, suppliers, partners, In April 2013, new legislation came into force in Denmark, customers and the public. requiring the largest Danish companies to report on the actions Our commitment to Global Compact also means that every year they are taking to ensure that more women are leaders at senior Arla has to report, openly and honestly, how the company is adhering management level. As a Danish cooperative, Arla Foods amba, falls to its Code of Conduct. This report describes the progress Arla has within the scope of the new legislation and is therefore required made over the year and where it sees opportunities for improvement. to adopt a policy on how to increase the number of women in top Since 2008, Arla has been an active member of the Global and upper management positions and the number of women on Compact’s Nordic Network. In May 2009, Arla signed up to Caring the Board of Directors. Arla must also adopt fixed target levels for for Climate, a voluntary and complementary action platform, gender diversity within these groups and report annually on the which seeks to demonstrate leadership around the issue of current status and the progress being made. climate change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO, Peder Tuborgh, signed a CEO In 2010, Arla developed its general strategy for diversity and Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, inclusion and set out long-term targets to take us to 2020. We an initiative from the Global Compact and UNIFEM (the UN have now increased our emphasis on this area and set more Development Fund for Women). Whistleblowing reports there still needs to be continued focus and screened and measured against predetermined In 2012, a whistleblowing function was management attention in this area. As in 2011 and financial, legal and corporate social responsibility implemented in Arla. The function provides an 2012, no reporting of facilitation payments has criteria. additional opportunity for colleagues to report been made in 2013. Potential partners which pass through this information about possible irregularities and is an stage of selection successfully then undergo an additional tool for them to voice their concerns if Contracts focus on Code of Conduct initial screening before a due diligence process they feel that they cannot share these with their Arla is committed to ensuring that its Code of is undertaken and a more detailed analysis takes manager or they feel that management has not Conduct is an integral part of doing business with place. The findings are used as an important adequately addressed their concern. The function third parties. Throughout the year, there has been parameter in the selection of business partners and is available to most Arla colleagues globally and we continued focus on deploying the principles in aim to ensure that our business partners satisfy our plan to make it available to all parts of the former the Code of Conduct in relation to Arla’s suppliers. requirements to commit to fair business practises MUH and Milk Link organisations, which joined the During the revision of Arla’s global model for and good citizenship. Arla group in 2012. procurement contracts and model contracts for The team of four Arla whistleblower case investments and capital expenditure, we have CSR committee focus in 2013 handlers has, since the start, received 16 reports maintained continued focus on the implementation At the CSR Committee’s ordinary meetings in 2013, from five different countries, mainly regarding of the Code of Conduct when working with suppliers. the findings and consequences from the 2012 theft, accounting, health and safety as well as CSR Report have been discussed as well as matters inappropriate behaviour. All reports have been Different opinions on Arla Wellness® relating to the safeguarding of the company’s reviewed by the case handlers. In some cases In Sweden, Arla has appealed against a decision values and the responsibility Arla has when entering the case handlers have concluded that, following taken by the Stockholm Environment and Health new partnerships and emerging markets. How to investigations, the reported misconduct could be Board regarding the labeling of the Arla Wellness® ensure continual progress with regards to diversity 30 verified and corrective actions have been taken. In products. The Board believes that the labeling is and inclusion has also been on the agenda. other cases the reported conduct was either out not fully compliant with the regulations governing of scope or the investigations concluded that the nutrition and health claims and that Arla should reported conduct could not be substantiated. make some changes. Arla does not believe this to be the case. Bribery and facilitation payments In 2010, Arla adopted a policy on bribery, facilitation Selection model for partnerships payments and gifts. In April 2013, the CSR As part of its growth strategy, Arla is continuously Committee discussed the level of implementation establishing partnerships around the globe with of the policy and concluded that the policy has local partners which sell our milk-based products. been diligently implemented and that the level of A partnership selection model has now been countries where Arla has production and/or awareness in the group is satisfactory, although developed whereby potential local partners are sales offices. 9 We manage our business in a good cooperative spirit that promotes the financial interests of our owners. OPERATIONAL PRINCIPLES A cooperative which reflects the interests of all owners • A new democratic structure attention is paid to issues close to the farmer, primarily global, but also issues of national interest, and ensure balance between • Milk price increases national and global perspectives. National councils have been • More British owners established in Denmark, Sweden and the UK along with a single council for Germany/Belgium/Luxembourg. The four national A new democratic model councils make recommendations to the Board of Directors. Following mergers with Hansa Milch, Milk Link and MUH, in recent As part of working with Strategy 2017, Arla will be undergoing years, Arla’s owners have discussed the cooperative’s democratic several changes over the next few years. For that reason it is structure. The aim has been to establish one global set up that a challenge for the cooperative to ensure that all members promotes the interest of all owners. In February 2013, the Board have a good understanding of Arla’s business and feel that of Representatives, Arla’s highest decision-making body, took the they have influence. Another principle is that the same rules decision to introduce a new democratic organisation based on and requirements should apply to all Arla farmers, regardless of the member democracy that has been the core of the company country, and a regulatory framework will, in time, be developed for more than 100 years. In the new organisation, the company’s and implemented. decision-making bodies, the Board of Representatives and Board of Directors, will remain the same but seats will be allocated A higher milk price for our owners differently. The allocation of seats between corporate members Arla increased the price it pays its owners for their milk in 2013. (Hansa Arla Milch, Arla Milk Link and MUH Arla) and owners in The price was increased six times. Arla’s performance price (the Denmark and Sweden, respectively, will be based on capital payment to members plus consolidation) for 2013 was DKK 3.05 contributions. The Danish and Swedish seats will be allocated per kg milk, which is an increase of 13 per cent on 2012. The according to milk volumes and member numbers. higher milk price is due to an improved global market situation The Board of Representatives adopted new, clearer rules and rising demand for milk products. Retail prices of dairy products for governance in 2013. It was also resolved that the number of were also raised during the year. directors would be reduced and that national councils would be Arla’s milk price is still affected by the economic recession in introduced to serve as sub-committees to the Board of Directors. Europe, where consumers are showing a preference for low-price The purpose of national councils is to ensure that adequate products over our branded products. The strong increase in 10 OPE RATIONAL PRINC IPL E S | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 demand is taking place in markets outside Europe, which is why New British owners Arla’s 2017 Strategy focuses on growth in these markets. While the In summer 2013, Arla’s Board of Directors presented a proposal to higher milk price paid to Arla’s owners has improved the financial the UK supplier group Arla Foods Milk Partnership (AFMP) for it to situation for farmers, many Arla farmers’ finances are still under become a corporate member of Arla with the aim of strengthening pressure due to the increased cost of purchases for the farm, such Arla’s UK business. In October, the proposal was accepted by Arla’s as animal feeds and fuel. Board of Representatives as well as AFMP, which means that 1,291 British farmers became owners of Arla at the turn of the year 2014. The same rules for all The decision was preceded by discussions on how to structure Corporate members of the cooperative in the UK and Germany the offer to ensure that existing owners were not disadvantaged. receive the same price for the milk they supply as individual owners Over the coming two years our new British owners will pay a levy in Denmark and Sweden, however corporate members distribute and they will, like all other owners in Arla, also contribute to annual the payment according to their local settlement models. In order to consolidation in Arla. ensure that the same rules and requirements are applied to all Arla Arla now has four corporate members: Arla Milk Cooperative milk, regardless of country, a project called One Arla Settlement Ltd (UK) with 1,291 individual members, Hansa Arla Milch eG has been initiated. The objective is to develop a proposal, through (Germany) with 750 individual members, Arla Milk Link Limited discussions in the national councils, for a model for calculating the (UK) with 1,524 individual members and MUH Arla eG (Germany) milk price that is equitable and easy to understand. with 2,511 individual members. Developing a model that works in all countries is a complex task. We expect the new settlement model to be implemented step by step in the coming years. Owner and supplier facts Training for elected members 2011 2012 2013 On a bi-annual basis Arla’s owners elect members to Owners, total 8,024 12,256 12,629 the Board of Representatives and Board of Directors. of which in Sweden 3,865 3,661 3,385 2013 was an election year, and all representatives of which in Denmark 3,514 3,354 3,168 and directors are appointed for a term of two years. of which in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg 645 3,657 3,261 The newly elected members of the Board of of which in the UK – 1,584 2,815* Representatives were invited to participate in an Members of AFMP in the UK 1,330 1,232 – induction and mentoring programme, Arla Kick In, Suppliers in Finland 1,000 813 609 which covers the role of elected representatives, of which are under contract 243 223 408 knowledge about the company and meetings Suppliers in Germany (Arla Foods Käsereien) 1,338 1,388 1,253 of the members of the six owner countries. This Motions to the meeting of the Board of Representatives 1 2 10 means that the newly elected members of the Participants in owner seminars 200 0 1,047 Board of Representatives from Sweden, Denmark, Appeals to the Arlagården® appeal groups in Sweden and Denmark 13 21 17 Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium and the UK have *As of December 31, 2013, 1,291 farmers became members/owners of Arla. been assigned a mentor from another country. The mentor is an experienced member of the Board of Representatives. As part of the training programme, At the end of 2013, the amount of owners/ Communication with Arla farmers the mentor and the newly elected representative members was 12,629. Compared to December All Arla farmers in the six member countries receive visit one another’s farms. 2012, this is an increase of three per cent. In 2013 our Owner Update newsletter, which is published The aim of the programme is to give the the volume of milk received from Arla’s owners fortnightly. The newsletter, which contains, for newly elected representatives the best possible increased by 26 per cent compared with 2012. example, articles about initiatives linked to Strategy introduction to their work on the Board of Each year approximately 60 per cent of 2017 and about events in our national markets, Representatives. The programme is also an Arla’s 500 elected members take part in training is published in six languages. We also offer webimportant tool for improving understanding programmes. During the 2012/2013 training based solutions that give our owners important among owners in different countries. Nearly all period the number of training days was 446 information on subjects such as milk quality and newly elected representatives have enrolled on (494 in 2011/2012). milk prices. the programme, with 47 mentor/new elected pairs taking part in 2013–2014. Visits to other countries Owner seminars In addition to the visits organised within the Owner seminars are arranged by elected framework of the introduction programme for new representatives for new and existing members. elected representatives, Arla farmers from different The seminars are designed to increase knowledge countries visited one another in 2013. In November, about Arla’s business, and background material is Danish Arla farmers were visited by 25 young available in four languages. Seminar participants farmers from Germany, followed by 35 elected meet in small groups, giving everyone a chance to 12,629 members from the UK in December. The agenda express themselves. In 2013, 56 owner seminars included visits to dairies and farms, presentations were held with a total of 1,047 participants. In 2012 on Arla’s business, meetings with members of the no seminars were arranged due to cost reduction Board of Directors and other visits, for example a initiatives and reorganisation activities, but in 2011, supermarket. 200 people took part in owner seminars. farmers own Arla. 11 We challenge and encourage our suppliers to support us in our commitment to abide by our Code of Conduct. PROCUREMENT Holistic view on sustainable sourcing • Global standardisation of supplier auditing Holistic view on procurement Arla has been operating a Total Cost of Ownership, TCO, approach • Towards preferred suppliers for many years. The process helps us to identify cost saving • Palm oil in focus opportunities for the entire life cycle of products and services purchased. This is achieved by optimising specifications, Preferred suppliers standardising and rationalising materials and ensuring alignment The global procurement department has overall responsibility across categories and business units. Cross-functional teamwork is for procurement in Arla. The external spend handled by the crucial in the process and close cooperation between purchasers and department represented around 76 per cent of our total spend in the primary users of the goods or services to be purchased, as well 2013, compared to 67 per cent in the previous year. as between suppliers and Arla, are the cornerstones of the process. Arla now has approximately 1,030 (930 in 2012) preferred The aim is to achieve a greater degree of transparency, as well as suppliers that are approved by the global procurement improved purchasing terms with suppliers. TCO provides a holistic department. Signed contracts govern the relationship between perspective that includes considerations in relation to sustainability, Arla and these suppliers and they are Arla’s first choice suppliers. ethics and social responsibility when selecting a supplier. During 2013, we have strengthened our requirements for For example, TCO has been used to develop the recommended documentation relating to preferred suppliers. Furthermore, standard for LED lighting, initially used in Denmark and Sweden. The in 2013, ensuring the compliance of purchases from preferred cost of the investment is recouped quickly through reduced energy suppliers, was a key focus area across Arla, the aim being to reduce consumption. Similarly, the purchase of external server capacity led risk and complexity as well as releasing capital and decreasing to more energy-efficient hardware within our IT system. costs. Another collaborative efficiency programme is Design to We continue to work towards our target of 100 per cent of Value. The purpose is to optimise product profitability with no, or all preferred suppliers having signed our code of conduct for only minor, impact on a consumer’s experience of the product. suppliers. Of all the preferred suppliers, a total of 85 per cent, The main focus is on cost optimisation and the process addresses in relation to spend, have signed the code, which is the same the product’s entire production chain and seeks to optimise share as last year. specifications of product features with regard to packaging, ingredients, recipes and pack size, for example. 12 PROC URE ME NT | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Standardised ingredient specifications global tools as well as defining clear roles and responsibilities During 2013, we have established a new global standardised for managing supplier auditing globally. Next steps will be the ingredient specification management framework. Our ambition is appointment of a global supplier auditing team and mapping of to ensure an effective process to prevent potential risks associated specialist skills as well as training of auditors and the integration of with ingredients. This is important as ingredients purchasing is the tools and processes in all business groups. decentralised which has led to variations in information quality and many specifications not being updated, resulting in uncertainties Supplier audits in 2013 and audit deviations. The introduction of a global approver We carry out a number of audits every year, during which we visit function with a limited number of appointed approvers across the suppliers and carry out inspections of relevant areas. In 2013, company, will improve the validity of specifications. we conducted approximately 40 audits globally, (60 audits 2012) We have completed many initiatives in 2013, but we still have a focusing on using our resources on suppliers who are new in Arla, challenge in identifying an IT system that supports the set-up and or with whom we experience difficulties. In addition to this, we we need to integrate all European sites during 2014–2015. have held a number of meetings with suppliers, not registered as audits, but which have had the same broad focus. Auditing tools and processes During the year it was brought to Arla’s attention that a As the system for supplier approval and assessment has been pineapple producer was suspected of using forced labour. We developed and implemented for all Arla’s preferred suppliers, the immediately checked to ensure that we did not purchase goods focus is now on global standardisation of supplier auditing tools from the producer in question. It later emerged that products and processes. Outside Denmark and Sweden, this has previously from this producer were included in ingredients that we purchase been handled by each country separately. The integration of from another supplier; despite us being very clear that we will supplier assurance programmes is about to start at all other not buy from this particular producer. Following this incident, European sites and began with Käsereien in Southern Germany in we conducted a thorough review of all our pineapple suppliers 2013. and producers. This has resulted in us formulating specific Central coordination has led to an audit dedicated to the requirements for producers of tropical fruit and a reduction in the relevant aspects of the business. However, there is work in number of our approved suppliers. progress concerning the development and implementation of Global contracts The RSPO principles and criteria are developed socially sustainable. The remaining one per cent Maintenance Packaging through stakeholder dialogue and are regarded was organic cocoa which was certified in early 2013. repair, 25% as the most comprehensive set of demands Non-certified cocoa is still used in private label operations 9% supporting sustainable palm oil production. products. Energy 13% However, they have received some criticism. Some Ingredients RSPO members have been accused of collaborating New bottles with less plastic 13% with companies implicated in the Indonesian forest New Eco bottles that weigh 15 per cent less than Business Logistics fires and in the clearance of peat land during 2013. their predecessors were introduced during the services 17% 23% These issues are being investigated by RSPO. year in the UK and are an example of successful During 2013, Arla has started to use Certified cooperation between Arla’s purchasers, packaging Segregated Palm Oil (CSPO), equivalent to experts and suppliers. The roll out of the new bottle The diagram shows the external spend handled by approximately 20 per cent of total volume. As the design is the largest packaging project Arla UK Arla’s global procurement department, distributed name suggests, this is certified palm oil that is has ever undertaken. Significant investment has across product and service categories. Compared physically separated from non-certified palm oil been made to accommodate the new bottles, for to 2012 there is an increase in logistics. Our beginning at the certified mill right the way through example, to modify filling lines, conveying systems 10 largest suppliers account for 16 per cent to the end user. In 2014, the bulk of the palm oil and trolley packers. The Eco bottle innovation will (19 per cent in 2012) of our total external spend. used by Arla will be CSPO from RSPO certified deliver a packaging weight reduction of over 3,000 In 2013, the following companies were our five plantations. There are still some specialised oils that tonnes per year. The plan is for all Arla’s UK sites to largest suppliers in order of size of spend: Tetra Pak are not yet available as certified. It is Arla’s ambition be using the new lightweight packaging and our (packaging materials and processing and packaging that, in 2015, all the palm oil it uses is CSPO. ultimate goal is to produce plastic bottles using 50 85 machinery), IBM (IT services), Carat (media), WWF (World Wildlife Fund) monitors the per cent recycled plastic. Logoplaste (packaging materials) and PCL transport development of palm oil production and usage of (distribution). sustainable palm oil. This is presented every second year as a palm oil ranking in which companies that Follow up on palm oil use palm oil are evaluated. In 2013, Arla received a Since 2011, Arla has been buying Green Palm Oil score of 11. The maximum score attainable is 12. % Certificates in relation to the entire use of palm oil and palm oil related ingredients. In addition, we UTZ certified cocoa have become a member of RSPO (Round Table for At the end of 2012, almost all the cocoa used Sustainable Palm Oil), an organisation that works to in Arla’s own products was certified by UTZ, a support sustainable production of palm oil. certifying organisation which ensures that cocoa of preferred suppliers have signed the code of production is financially, environmentally and conduct for suppliers. 13 We have good, honest relationships with all of our stakeholders. MARKET CONDUCT Continuing to grow on the global market • Tough international competition A key difference between Arla and many of our major competitors is that Arla is a cooperative that is owned by dairy • Different market approaches farmers who are also our suppliers. This means that Arla’s goal • Culinary inspiration is always to pay its owners as much as possible for their milk, in both the short and long term. One benefit of our cooperative A clearer Arla identity model is that the close link to our owners gives us secure access Arla has a rich history and our business is based on many strong to milk, which is essential to our continued growth. In November, values. In 2013, we initiated a programme to clarify and refine our for example, British farmers forged closer ties with Arla when Arla global corporate identity. Our ambition is to bring together, in a Foods Milk Partnership (AFMP) took up the opportunity to become single shared identity, important things which matter to us: Our part owners of Arla. When Arla gains access to more milk, the cooperative philosophy, our responsible work practises, our natural challenge is to utilise it as profitably as possible. and healthy products, and our responsibility for the environment and for our colleagues. Different strategies in different markets Developing a global corporate identity to which both new With northern Europe as its base, Arla is striving to become an and existing stakeholders can relate is a challenge. But since the increasingly global player. Operating across a diverse spectrum identity is built on existing core values and our long history, we feel of markets, we have different marketing strategies for different certain that it will be easily recognised by all stakeholders and soon markets. In our more mature core markets in Europe we offer a embedded in our global organisation. wide range of products in all product categories. We sell branded products as well as products under retailers’ own labels, and Expanding in a competitive market ranges are adapted to each local and regional market. In Germany, In an increasingly global dairy market Arla is now the world’s sixth for instance, naturalness is a strong influence. Here, our organic largest dairy company in terms of volume of processed milk. product launches have proved successful, as has been the case in Although our sales are influenced by local dairy companies, it is in Finland. Interest in low-fat and high-protein products is growing in competition with the big global companies that our goals will be Denmark and the UK. High protein content is a trend in Sweden, achieved. For that reason, it is important that we continue to focus where higher-fat products are also in demand. The UK market has on our three global brands, Arla®, Castello® and Lurpak®. continued to be affected by a weak economy, with customers 14 MARKE T CONDUC T | OUR RE SPONSIBIL ITY 2 0 1 3 demanding low-cost dairy products. The same is true in the by establishing a partnership with a carefully selected local partner Netherlands, and Denmark, too, has experienced significant price with whom we can mutually develop. We let the business grow pressures on dairy and juice products. gradually as we learn more about the local market. In other markets we are focusing on branded products within specific categories. In Russia we have strong positions in white Arla and own labels cheese, blue cheese and fresh cheese. The white cheese category In our core markets, the share of dairy products sold under Arla Apetina® is the biggest selling product in the country. In the retailers’ own labels varies from country to country. In Germany article on page 16 we give an account of the growth of Arla’s and the UK, for instance, 80 per cent of fresh milk is sold under business in Russia. Exports of milk powder and long-life milk to under these labels, in Denmark 55 per cent, while the figure China are increasing steadily and demand for certified organic milk is much lower in Sweden, 15 per cent. In Sweden and Finland is especially strong as it is considered a safe alternative. the market for own-label dairy products is growing. In Denmark In establishing a presence in new markets and in emerging retailers’ own labels are no longer growing as quickly, with demand economies, we follow a tried and tested strategy to ensure that our shifting to strong brands. business principles and code of conduct are adhered to. We begin Dialogue with consumers survey are familiar with Arla and have a positive companies. We gather our customers’ views in many Our consumer relations service receives complaints impression of the company. We received particularly different ways. Continuous dialogue with customers and comments and answers questions covering high scores for good, natural and healthy products. is important, and we take their views and wishes everything from product quality and packaging To improve our reputation, consumers say very seriously. In Denmark, for instance, interest in to advertising campaigns and recipes and it does we should pay dairy farmers more, offer a wider sustainability issues has increased. so by telephone, email and letter. On average, range of organic products and improve animal In the UK, we are ranked as the best dairy the consumer relations service receives around welfare. Respondents also said clearer marketing supplier in the Advantage Group Survey and 250,000 individual enquiries. communication about our products could improve was also awarded the title Best Overall Own In general, it is the case that different types of reputation. Label Supplier. We have also received several issues are raised in different countries and these awards in recognition of our efforts to reduce our 80 often reflect the topics currently being debated environmental and climate impact. in society. In Sweden and Finland the origin of the In our Swedish market, customers’ confidence raw milk used in production has been an issue in Arla declined in the spring and summer due to 70 of concern, and in Sweden the discussion about variations in the quality of deliveries. This was due to how much the farmers receive for their milk has the relocation of production and a major overhaul of also been highlighted. In the UK we have received 60 IT systems. An action programme was activated, and many questions about lactose-free products. In the situation improved substantially in the autumn. Denmark animal welfare and the nutritional content of products have engaged consumers. Russian Discovering the joy of cooking consumers predominantly ask about products, Providing inspiration is part of Arla’s vision. By 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 recipes and ingredients while US consumers ask this we mean we want to help people to enjoy Arla Sweden Arla Finland about gluten, allergens and the origin of additives. cooking and making good food. That’s why, in many Arla Denmark In many countries our dialogue with countries – the Nordics as well as Saudi Arabia and consumers has, to a large extent, shifted from The diagram shows the overall score on a scale of Russia – Arla is working to spread knowledge about traditional communications channels to social 0–100, with 100 being the highest and above 70 cooking, diet and products, by offering recipes and media, mainly Facebook and Twitter. It is a challenge considered strong, awarded to Arla by consumers in cookbooks and through other activities. to engage in different dialogues across multiple a survey conducted by Reputation Institute in spring Arla also supports cooking competitions, channels, and we acknowledge that it is important 2013. Arla in Germany scored 75.8. including the official Swedish Chef of the Year event to meet consumers where they are. In addition to the survey of consumer for 30 years, and a similar competition for pastry perception of Arla, research was carried out to chefs. In Finland we support the Finnish national Consumers’ views of Arla understand stakeholders’ expectation of Arla. The team of chefs. For customers such as food retailers, For a number of years we have been conducting results highlight that Arla is expected to act in a schools and commercial kitchens, Arla Sweden annual surveys to monitor what consumers think way that is fair, ethical and in the best interests of arranges the Arla Guldko (Golden Cow) competition. about Arla in Denmark, Sweden and Finland. Last the environment. We should set ambitious goals, The competition aims to highlight shining examples year the survey was also carried out in Germany. act globally and with boldness. We should also work which can inspire others. Generally, Arla has a good reputation and the to promote health and food safety by leading the highest scores we are awarded relate to our debate, sharing our knowledge and being able to Closer to Nature™ products. Consumers’ perceptions of Arla’s work in demonstrate how we deliver in these areas. Our Closer to Nature™ concept has evolved from relation to social and environmental responsibility an initiative to being part of everyday life at Arla. (citizenship) and the way in which we run our Customers’ perception of Arla The concept continues to inspire our business and company with regard to ethics and transparency Strong relationships with all our customers are has, for instance, influenced the content of our (governance) are becoming increasingly important. essential, and many of them express their respect products, milk production requirements and our Arla is still relatively unknown in Germany, for us as a partner and supplier. In our core markets own production, in an increasingly environmentally but the German consumers that responded to the we are the largest, or one of the three largest dairy friendly direction. 15 O U R RES PO N S I B I L I T Y 2 013 | R ES PONS I BLE COM PANY “Everyone we work with needs to understand what we stand for” ARLA’S JOURNEY in Russia, which began 20 years ago, has been purposely cautious. Before investing its initial 75 per cent stake in a joint venture with the Russian distributor Artis, Arla worked with the distributor for more than 10 years. At first, Arla focussed heavily on understanding the market and building a relationship with its new partner. Strong growth in a promising market Since 2007, the business has expanded rapidly. It now employs approximately 150 people and generates annual sales of around DKK 900 million. In 2013, Arla acquired the remaining 25 per cent, and Arla Foods Artis became a fully owned subsidiary. In early 2014, Arla will begin production of yellow cheese in the country in collaboration with Russia’s third largest dairy company, Molvest Group. Over the past five years Arla has grown sales by more than 20 per cent a year in Russia, says Hans Christensen, senior vice president within Consumer International with responsibility for Arla’s operations in Russia and North America. It has taken time and required significant investment, but the operation is generating profit and the plan is to continue this growth. “The reason things have gone so well is due to good entrepreneurship and thorough knowledge of the retail sector. But we have also been very careful when choosing our business partners. Everyone we work with needs to understand what we stand for. We don’t do business with anybody,” Hans Christensen says. Respect for Arla’s Code of Conduct Hans Christensen describes the process which took place as the Russian business looked for business partners and potential acquisitions over the past three years. To assist in the search, Hans Christensen, senior vice president. Arla engaged consultants who were educated in Arla’s Code of Conduct, business principles and core values. “The consultants needed to understand the framework within The Russian market offers huge which we operate,” Hans Christensen explains. “There was no point in them presenting partners that didn’t respect our requirements potential for Arla. But how does for ethical behaviour. That’s why a key task was to translate Arla’s the company ensure that its Code of Conduct into Russian as soon as possible.” Hans Christensen believes that making the effort to translate values and Code of Conduct the Code of Conduct into local languages is crucial for building credibility in all new markets where Arla wants to establish a are adhered to, while seeking presence. He takes the example of the initial discussions regarding a production partnership with Molvest Group. In the early stages, to accommodate differences in Hans Christensen chose to present Arla’s Code of Conduct and explain that adherence to the code was an essential requirement culture and leadership? for the partnership. 16 RE SPONSIB L E COMPANY | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Thorough training in laws and regulations explain him/herself. If suspicion that the Code of Conduct has Training colleagues, especially those who have contact with been violated remains, the person in question will be given an customers and suppliers, in Arla’s Code of Conduct and values opportunity to exonerate themself or leave Arla. has been another key step. “Just like in all of Arla’s other markets,” “We are very clear on this point,” Hans Christensen says. Hans Christensen is keen to add. “Because our colleagues know the rules, someone leaving Arla “We have invested money and energy in bringing people also sends a clear message. The result is the same, of course, if a together from all regions of Russia to train them and inform them colleague breaches the Code of Conduct in Denmark or Sweden, about what applies and where the line is drawn between what is but the process is different here.” permitted and what is not. They are also informed of what the Today, many of the people employed by Arla in Russia have consequences are for those who fail to comply with the applicable worked for Western companies previously, so for them this is laws and regulations,” Hans Christensen says. nothing new, neither the internal process nor the fact that the Contract writing, legal review of contracts and compliance with company’s Code of Conduct is taken very seriously. competition laws are key focus areas in the training programmes. Big differences in leadership Suspicions taken seriously When asked what is the biggest difference between working In 2012, Arla introduced a global whistleblowing function, which in Russia compared with Denmark, Hans Christensen points to gives all colleagues an opportunity to anonymously report any corporate culture and leadership as examples. He explains that it is incidents which violate the company’s Code of Conduct. Hans important to respect the local culture and that the Russian style of Christensen says that the opportunity is good, but he describes a leadership needs to be preserved if Arla’s business in the country is more proactive approach when it comes to handling suspicions to function successfully. regarding potential wrongdoing in the Russian business. “But, at the same time, we embed everything that Arla stands “For us it is key that we watch out for all types of signals rather for,” Hans Christensen says. “In addition to the Code of Conduct, than waiting for somebody to blow the whistle, which is quite this includes the values expressed in Our Character and our unusual here. If we suspect something we take action,” he says. leadership philosophy, as described in Our Leadership. We offer As soon as a sign that a potential wrongdoing has occurred these tools, which are integrated in our business at the pace that reaches management, an internal process is launched to our Russian leaders deem appropriate. We are gradually combining investigate the suspicion. The suspect is offered legal assistance, the two cultures and paying mutual respect to each.” presented with the suspicion and given an opportunity to “We communicate very clearly to our partners that failing to comply with our Code of Conduct can have very serious consequences for our relationship,” says Hans Christensen, senior vice president within Consumer International (page 16). To the right, a culinary session with Arla Apetina®, the biggest selling white cheese product in the country. 17 Confidence in products Supplying safe products is Arla’s top priority. And we strive to do even more – we aim to make it possible for consumers to make their own informed choice of products based on clear information and knowledge. 18 Food safety As a responsible food manufacturer we are dedicated to ensuring that eating and drinking our products does not cause illness or injury. We make every effort to ensure that our processes are safe and that high quality standards are maintained throughout the entire supply chain, from the raw material to the finished product. In the event of an issue we have full traceability of our raw materials, ingredients and end products enabling us to take immediate action. See page 20. Food and health Arla is committed to meeting consumer demand for healthy products and reliable nutritional information. We inform our consumers about the ingredients in all our products so they can choose those that best suit their tastes and fulfil their needs. Through research, we aim to increase our understanding of the role of dairy products in a balanced diet. See page 22. 19 We meet consumer demand for safe dairy products. FOOD SAFETY Safe products are our top priority • Focus on product quality One global product quality management system As Arla grows, one of the challenges we face is the move from a • Global perspective local to a global mindset. We need to ensure that our operations • Continued antibiotic awareness in all countries follow the same overall safety principles and processes, as well as programmes for HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Global product quality strategy Critical Control Point) and crisis management, for example. Our Food safety is a top priority at Arla and we have well-established goal is to have one global product quality management system procedures and methods to ensure that we can guarantee the and agreed global standards relating to risk. The process to achieve quality of our products at all times. In October 2013, a new global this is ongoing, for example, our document control system is now product quality strategy was established. The strategy will be a implemented in Denmark, Sweden, the UK and Finland. Arla’s fundamental part of our work to ensure continuous food safety Code of Practices for HACCP, Listeria and crisis management are and product quality throughout the group. being implemented globally. Global IT systems that support these The strategy aims to ensure that Arla continues to be at the processes are desirable and being investigated. The costs and the forefront of food safety and always prevents potential risks. By complexity of such systems are a challenge. establishing a global culture of product quality, Arla continuously Arla’s global certification standard is ISO 22000, to which strives to be the preferred partner for customers worldwide. 53 of Arla’s 73 production sites are certified. Sites that remain to The strategy safeguards that our dairies are supplied with be certified according to ISO 22000 all meet national standards raw materials, ingredients and water, for example, in compliance for food safety. Some sites are also certified according to national with Arla’s specifications and requirements. It also covers our food safety programmes such as SQF (Safe Quality Foods), manufacturing processes to ensure that no pathogens, foreign internationally recognised standards including ISO 9001, BRC bodies or contaminants compromise food safety and product (British Retailer Consortium), IFS (International Food Standard) quality. Similarly, sensory and functional quality must also comply or customer-specific standards. Our ambition is to simplify the with our requirements as well as with customer specifications certification schemes and work towards one single certification and standards. Finally, the strategy ensures that our distribution standard that covers both quality and food safety. channels protect the quality and safety of our products. 20 FOOD SAFE TY | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Focus on chemical contaminations screening programme for relevant products to assess the level As increasing numbers of new substances and materials become of DEHP. DEHP is a phthalate which is used as a plasticizer and is available, it is an ongoing challenge to manage contaminants. On suspected to damage fertility. To manage risks and avoid incidents, the other hand, detection methods are constantly being improved. we have identified risk areas and set up specialist groups around We believe we have well established methods to detect specific themes. chemical contaminants and we fulfil legal requirements, however, Quaternary ammonium compounds, QAC, is a component we strive to increase our understanding of potential chemical in many cleaning and disinfectant agents used in the dairy contaminants that can affect our products. We continuously work industry. EU has reduced the permitted threshold in infant foods. to identify and prioritise emerging and relevant risks using external Arla is going further than EU legislation and phasing out the use and internal experts. For example, we are aware of the concerns of all cleaning and disinfectant agents containing QAC at all its and risks of bis-phenol A, BPA. Typically, BPA is used as a lacquer in production sites. metal tins and is one of a number of chemicals that is suspected to have the potential to interact with hormones in the body. We are Safe development of new products working with the industry to identify ways to phase out the use of One of Arla’s overall goals is that new products deliver 10 per cent BPA. The packaging used by Arla for child nutrition products does of annual turnover. To ensure that potential risks are foreseen not dispose a BPA product contact risk. and handled, we have established a process that integrates food We have introduced processes and tools to capture emerging safety and product quality awareness into the development of new risks in a proactive way. For example, we have established a products. Discarded milk with antibiotics The standard must also align with the requirements New analysis method tons/year of customers and the laws of all individual countries. Arla has entered the final phases in the development of an analytical method to test 4,000 Product recalls whether milk has been deliberately tampered 3,500 If we have to recall a product from consumers with, in cooperation with Fonterra, another major 3,000 or stop a product that has been delivered to our dairy company, and Foss, a supplier of analysis 2,500 customers, we have procedures in place to ensure equipment. The initial phase of the development 2,000 that we can act immediately. Despite our efforts and project has proved that the analytical method is 1,500 food safety routines, we have recalled products on able to detect adulteration of milk rapidly, with high 1,000 seven occasions during the year, as the products did sample throughput, and satisfactory sensitivity. 500 not meet required standards. The analytical method combines a proactive and 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 corrective approach that will enable us to detect Denmark and Sweden UK Germany 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 contaminants, even those of which we are currently Denmark 2013 Sweden 2013 Recalls 4 0 4 6 7 unaware. Sick animals are sometimes treated with antibiotics. The analytical method is in the final test phases Milk from the cow is discarded at the farm during Six of the recalls were minor volumes in a domestic in Denmark, Sweden and China and is being verified the period of treatment and for a period of time market and one was a recall that affected five ahead of being introduced on a commercial basis. afterwards. To ensure that no antibiotics remain in markets. The test in China is carried out via the Chinathe milk we carry out checks and any milk containing Denmark Milk Technology Cooperation Centre. antibiotics is discarded. The table shows the volume Improved risk assessment The collective vision of this project is to develop of discarded milk at our dairies in Denmark and As part of shelf life testing and to be able to a method that will be applied by the global dairy Sweden, and in 2013 includes the UK and Germany. shorten the time to market for new products, we industry. The volume of discarded milk in Denmark and use a method for undertaking microbiological risk Sweden decreased during the year and milk has been assessments. The method is less time consuming Danish-Chinese knowledge centre discarded on 39 (last year 39) occasions in these two than traditional methods. As we grow our exports The food safety knowledge centre that Arla created countries. In the UK and Germany on 105 occasions, to global markets, being able to extend shelf life is in partnership with Chinese Mengniu in 2012 although with much smaller batch sizes. increasingly important. During the year we have is now working on activity to support its vision Arla takes seriously the management of the received promising results in relation to improved of promoting food safety in China and to grow treatment of cows and the presence of antibiotics quality and the shelf life of white cheese from Kruså consumer confidence in dairy products globally. For in milk. We have continued with our information dairy in Denmark after adding a protective culture. example, Chinese food inspectors have been trained campaigns and our advisory service in order in the application of European industry codes of to improve the management of medicine, and Food safety training practise for dairy production and the inspections can see the result in the decreasing volumes in Continuous training and education is important of dairies. High level meetings with participants Scandinavia. We have had different set ups in to maintain Arla’s food safety standards. In the from the ministries of agriculture and universities in different countries and are now working towards a UK, Arla has worked with key industry partners to Denmark and China have also been held. common quality standard for milk suppliers’ milk. develop and accredit a new nationally recognised 22000 A decision about the standard is expected in 2014. food safety qualification for dairy manufacturing. In connection with this, a framework for antibiotic It covers and examines knowledge critical to testing in Denmark, Sweden, the UK and Germany dairy, including pasteurization, shelf life, cross will be established. The aim is to introduce a global contamination, microbial growth and temperature standard that ensures the same requirements, control. The first participants of the programme monitoring and sanctions for all Arla’s milk suppliers. received their certificates during the year. ISO 22000 is Arla’s global certification standard. 21 We meet consumer demands for healthy products and nutritional information about products. FOOD AND HEALTH Dairy products for all consumers • Supporting better breakfast habits Cutting down on salt, sugar and fat We strive to offer healthier alternatives for consumers which is why • Protein products popular we are working to reduce the content of sugar, salt and fat in our • Reducing salt and sugar products. This is also a consideration when we develop new ones. In 2013 we have, for example, launched a series of fruit yogurts Encouraging better breakfast habits in Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands with a reduced amount Arla wants to offer consumers healthy products as well as of added sugar. In Arla Denmark the whole Yoggi® range is now information about its products’ health benefits. In several markets sweetened with less sugar and uses stevia as a sweetener, which around the world, including Denmark and Sweden, as well as has reduced our sugar usage by 500 tonnes a year, corresponding Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates, Bangladesh and to 30 per cent. Arla’s global research and development unit, the new markets in Africa, we have been providing information and Arla Strategic Innovation Centre (ASIC), has launched a project inspirational messages about the importance of eating a good aimed at finding new, innovative solutions for offering products breakfast. Our communication centres around good breakfast with less added sugar. In the project we are collaborating with habits and that these are good for health and helping you to external partners and institutes. face the day ahead. We have arranged breakfasts at schools, run Reducing the amount of salt in cheese is difficult to achieve campaigns in social media and created inspiring breakfast recipes. without impairing the taste and consistency of the product. ASIC A particular emphasis has been placed on changing the breakfast has continued its efforts to find methods to reduce the amount habits of children and young people for the better. of added salt in cheese and other dairy products without affecting Our global breakfast message is an example of one of the quality. This work is continuing despite consumers generally opportunities Arla has to spread information about the role of appearing to have a limited awareness of the link between salt and dairy products in a well balanced diet and for a healthy life. In health. In Denmark we have worked to ensure all our products are an increasingly urbanised and more physically inactive world in line with the levels recommended by health authorities. In the we see an increased need for knowledge about the connection UK we have launched Anchor® Spreadable Unsalted, spreadable between diet, physical activity and health. See next page for more product which contains no salt and we have also reduced the salt examples of our information campaigns in relation to food and content in two Cheddar cheeses. health. 22 FOOD AND H E ALTH | OUR RE SPONSIBIL ITY 2 0 1 3 We are continuing to develop products with a low fat content physical activity in the UK and Sweden, for instance that milk while reducing the fat content of some of our existing products, is a good recovery drink and ’nature’s own sports drink’. We are such as our Danish Kærgården® mini, in which the fat content has beginning to notice a growing awareness among consumers of the been reduced from 43 to 40 per cent. positive connection between dairy products and physical activity. Another way of helping consumers to make healthier food choices is to offer portion sizes which correspond to their Health claims on our products requirements. In 2013, Arla has, in addition to a 200g cream Arla wants to inform its consumers about the nutrients naturally cheese pack, launched four x 50g cream cheese packs, for present in milk and the health effects of milk and dairy products. instance, with the aim of helping consumers to cut their calorie Following the EU presenting new, approved health claims in 2012, intake while also preserving the freshness of the product and our use of these claims has increased, both in our basic product reducing the amount of food that goes to waste. range and on speciality products. An example of a speciality product is our Arla Wellness® brand, Continued interest in proteins launched in Sweden at the end of 2012. Arla Wellness® is a range of Interest in products with a high protein content remains strong. In milk and yogurt products with added vitamin D, vitamin C, calcium Denmark, Sweden and Finland demand for naturally protein-rich and/or fibre. The products also contain lactic acid bacteria. Our products such as cottage cheese, quark and skyr has grown, as has marketing communication for these products is based on the new demand for protein-enriched milk and yogurt products. In the UK EU rules but has been challenged by a consumer organisation. we have launched a chocolate drink with 40 per cent more protein Read more about this in the chapter Business principles on page 8. than similar drinks. Read more about the development of proteinIn 2013, we added more products to our Arla Wellness® range and enriched products in the article on page 24. several of these have been launched in Denmark under the Arla Over the past two years we have communicated messages Cultura® brand and in Finland under the Luonto® brand. on the beneficial properties of dairy products in connection with Focusing on young people’s dietary habits Growing interest in lactose-free products Little awareness about salt The Danish Arla Foundation, launched in 2012, Consumer interest in lactose-free products A Danish study conducted on behalf of Arla’s works to help young people aged 10–14 to continues to grow. In terms of volume, Sweden global research and development unit shows that establish healthy eating habits. In 2012, the Arla and Finland are by far our largest markets for both consumers are moderately interested in buying Foundation arranged a number of events aimed at fresh and long-life lactose-free milk. In Denmark dairy products due to a reduced salt content. They strengthening the target group’s knowledge about and Germany sales of lactose-free products have are more inclined to try reduced-salt products food and physical activity. Read more in the chapter increased strongly, albeit from a relatively low level. when they are presented with health arguments Community relations on page 38. In the Netherlands, Arla has launched four lactosethat support the products, provided that the taste free products, the first of their kind in that market. of the products is not affected. The study also Different focus in different markets shows that consumers would like to see more Consumers’ questions and suggestions enable us to Number of lactose-free products credible information from public authorities on adapt and develop popular products. In our German 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the importance of reducing salt intake as health market, for example, naturalness is a strong driving Finland 20 31 30 37 46 messages from private companies have low force. Here our organic product launches have been Sweden 15 19 32 32 35 credibility. successful, as have regional brands. United Kingdom 8 9 11 11 13 As a result of previous product safety issues, Denmark – 1 3 3 8 Dairy products for malnourished people many consumers in China have little confidence Germany – – 2 5 5 Arla Foods Ingredients is currently engaged in in Chinese dairy products. The long-life organic Netherlands – – – – 4 several research projects that are looking at how milk which we launched in China in 2013 has been dairy products could help people suffering from certified by both Chinese and European regulators. In addition, yellow cheeses are considered naturally malnutrition. We are also exploring opportunities The market for imported milk is growing rapidly in lactose-free. to improve the nutritional value, and taste of food, China. that is distributed as emergency aid. By adding 500 ingredients from dairy products to foods for people Information campaigns examples in need, it is possible to increase protein, minerals UK A partnership, via our brand Cravendale®, and lactose content. with the British government’s to inspire people to In Malawi, Arla is engaged in a research project choose healthier food. with the Washington University School of Medicine, Denmark A collaborative effort with a Danish USA. The project is a comparative study between a nutrition association aimed at putting malnutrition whey-based nutritional supplement and a traditional among elderly and ill people on the agenda. peanut and soya-based nutritional supplement. Sweden Arla is working with the Swedish Olympic The supplements have been given to malnourished Committee to promote the nutritional benefits tonnes less sugar used in Danish fruit yogurt, Yoggi®, children and the initial results are very encouraging. of milk products in connection with physical activity. a reduction of 30 per cent. Read more in the article on page 24. 23 O U R RES PO N S I B I L I T Y 2 013 | CONFI DENCE I N PRODUCT S “Development of products with specific health functions is a priority area for us” A GROWING NUMBER of elderly people in the population, and a world where some societies have more than enough food readily available and others too little, are two current global challenges. Consequently, malnutrition and health are both issues with growing global importance. For Arla, the health benefits of milk products are so important that they are referenced in the company’s vision: “Creating the future of dairy to bring health and inspiration to the world, naturally.” Arla believes that milk is one of nature’s most nutritious foods and that those who eat or drink milk products daily, consume many of the nutrients that the body needs. “Making sure you have sufficient proteins to enable your muscles and bones to function properly is important. Milk protein is a high-quality, good-tasting protein that is available in both solid and liquid form, and it doesn’t require cooking either,” says Karin Arkbåge, nutritionist at Arla’s research department. Protein exists in large quantities in food that comes from animals, such as milk, fish, meat and eggs, but also in plant foods like peas, beans and cereals. The proteins that are present in milk and other animal foods have a composition that is suited for human needs. Ordinary milk is an important source of the proteins we need, as is fermented milk and yogurt while cheese, quark and skyr are particularly rich sources. Milk products for all Arla is working to offer consumers tasty and healthy products in all of its markets. Arla’s researchers and product developers are also striving to fulfil the dietary requirements of specific target groups, for example the elderly. For this growing sector of the population, milk proteins have proved to have many positive effects. Karin Arkbåge, nutritionist Ph.D. “Globally, we have an increasing number of upper middle-aged people who are keen to stay fit and healthy for as long as possible,” New research findings show Karin Arkbåge says. “Small changes in dietary and exercise habits can have a big impact and improve quality of life. As well as that milk and dairy products traditional dairy products such as milk, yogurt and cheese, which are all naturally rich in proteins, vitamins and minerals, Arla also can help to improve the health offers a range of protein-enhanced products.” of individuals both in the Nutrition for an ageing population western world and in developing Malnutrition among the elderly and people who are unwell is a growing problem all over the world. In wealthy countries in the EU countries. A key focus area is it is estimated that around 10 per cent of all people over the age of 65 are malnourished. This is putting pressure on welfare systems milk proteins. as the share of elderly people, relative to the rest of the population, is increasing year on year. Malnutrition has therefore become a public health issue as well as a socio-economic issue. People need 24 CONFIDE NC E IN PRODUC TS | OUR RE SPONSIBIL ITY 2 0 1 3 to eat well to feel good and be as healthy as possible for as long absorbed rapidly by the body and is good for muscle development. as possible. Arla can contribute both knowledge about the health Thanks to innovation and research, whey has gone from being a effects of dairy products and provide nutritious tailor-made by-product with no value to a key ingredient in new milk products. milk-based products. “Food can be as important as medicine for elderly and sick Whey protein as a treatment for malnutrition people,” Karin Arkbåge says, “and diets have to be adapted to the Research has also shown that whey protein and a mineral-rich needs of each individual.” by-product from whey can benefit malnourished children. When people grow old or fall sick they often suffer loss of Together with Washington University School of Medicine, USA, appetite. And it is at these times when it is especially important to Arla is currently conducting a comparative study between a whey ensure that they still consume sufficient amounts of protein, fat, protein-based nutritional supplement and a traditional peanut calcium and vitamin D, for example. and soya-based nutritional supplement, which are being given to “It is also important to ensure that the food tastes good. Most malnourished children in Malawi. The preliminary results point to elderly people don’t need to avoid fat for healthy reasons. That a rapid recovery in children who are given the supplements, but it extra knob of butter on their potatoes could be just the thing,” says is still too early to say whether there are any differences between Karin Arkbåge. the two. The newly published Nordic dietary recommendations “We view our research and the opportunities that exist in emphases the importance of protein intake for people, over the this area as another way of contributing to society,” Charlotte age of 65. Research has also proved that protein, evenly distributed Sørensen, senior project manager at Arla Foods Ingredients, says. over the day, with 20–30 grams for breakfast, lunch and dinner, is “The development of products with specific health functions is a beneficial for muscular development. For most people this means priority area for us, and it is well supported in our Code of Conduct. increasing their protein intake at breakfast and at lunch. It also feels good to be working on something that can make the With the aim of enabling elderly and sick people to recover world a slightly better place.” more quickly, Arla Foods Ingredients has developed a product In April, Arla initiated and organised an international called Protin®, in collaboration with two Danish hospital kitchens. conference on food aid. Some of the world’s leading experts in It is a natural product made from milk and cream, enriched with this area presented research findings, demonstrating that milk additional milk protein that can help those who do not want to, components can be a key source of nutrition for malnourished or are unable to, eat enough to maintain their protein intake at people. The conference was very appreciated and resulted in the an appropriate level. Protin® has the same nutritional values as development of a network for researchers in this field. alternative clinical products and is a good energy and protein supplement. An additional benefit, that has emerged during testing, is that it tastes nice, which can be very important for people who have lost their appetite. Arla Foods Ingredients has also developed a new way to ARLA FOODS INGREDIENTS is a specialised supplier of advanced, innovative use the protein in whey, a by-product from cheese production. milk-based products. The company also conducts clinical studies into the Whey protein is one of the most interesting proteins in milk. It is nutritional properties of milk components. Karin Arkbåge, nutritionist Ph.D. at Arla’s Innovation centre (page 24), and Charlotte Sørensen, senior project manager at Arla Foods Ingredients (to the left), explains how milk proteins can help to improve the health of individuals, for example malnourished children in Malawi (to the right). 25 Care for the environment and animal welfare From international climate summits to turning the cows out to pasture. At Arla we address a wide range of environmental and agricultural issues. And our goal is always the same – to work consistently towards reducing our environmental and climate impact, and maintain high animal welfare standards. 26 Environment and climate Food production and the transportation of products invariably affect the environment by discharging substances into the air, the fields and the water. Our ambition is therefore to minimise this discharge and continually reduce our environmental impact within the entire supply chain in order to contribute to sustainable development. See page 28. Agriculture We want to ensure that farms supplying milk to Arla operate in a way that shows respect for milk quality, animal welfare and the environment. Our milk suppliers must therefore adhere to our high standards when it comes to milk production, animal health and feed quality. See page 32. 27 We continually improve our environmental performance by applying sound and sustainable principles – from cow to consumer. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Environmental strategy drives continual improvement • Reduced climate impact green electricity and natural gas as well as adopting an energy • Testing new vehicles saving programme, have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by a third since 2010. • Focus on the zero waste strategy By 2020, half of our energy consumption must originate from renewable energy sources. The facility in Linköping, Sweden, has Environmental Strategy 2020 converted from oil to district heating, of which at least 85 per cent Arla’s environmental strategy, launched in 2011, is the guiding is generated from renewable sources. However, during 2013, principle for all environmental and climate work within the our total renewable energy usage has increased from 16.0 to company. The strategy covers the complete life cycle of products, 16.5 per cent and the 2020 target is a challenge. An energy task from milk production on the farm to how consumers handle force has been established to develop new solutions. One initiative packaging and leftovers. The section of the strategy focusing on is a planned use of farm-produced biogas at sites in Denmark. the farm is described in the Agriculture chapter on page 32. The strategy can be downloaded from www.arla.com. Transport improvements It is a challenge to constantly reduce our overall environmental Optimising transportation and minimising fuel consumption and climate impact, but we also see possibilities to increase the are still areas where we can make improvements. A trailer that use of renewable energy within production, by increasing the combines both a raw milk tanker and refrigerated section for amount of energy recycled within our value chain. The structural finished products has been a success. It carries finished product on changes within dairy production, approved during the year, and the one leg of its journey and raw milk on its return to the dairy, which new dairy outside London will contribute to achieving our strategy. means it does not run empty. During 2013, 20 new combination vehicles have been put into operation in the UK. We are currently Production responsible for less greenhouse gas emissions investigating if it is possible to adapt the trailer to comply with At several production facilities in Denmark and Germany, switching national regulations in our other European markets. from oil to gas has reduced greenhouse gas emissions. In Bad Furthermore, Arla has put a new milk tanker into operation Wörishofen and Sonthofen in Germany, in less than a year, in the UK which has a greater milk carrying capacity and its milk investment in heating systems has been offset by the cost savings collecting system halves the time it takes to collect milk on farm. these have generated. At Nijkerk in the Netherlands, purchasing This means less fuel is used and less time is spent idling on farm. 28 E NVIRONME NT AND C L IMATE | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 This tanker will be introduced in all European markets. We are also target was reached. An important step to further reduce energy testing high efficiency trailers for distributing finished products consumption is the energy mapping programme which will from our new dairy in Aylesbury, outside London. be concluded for all Arla sites in 2014. This will result in an To reduce emissions further, we test different fuels. In Sweden, aggregated master plan which will serve as the basis for identifying the use of 100 per cent RME biobased fuel has increased. In the improvement opportunities and investment prioritisation. UK, we currently have 11 dual fuel tractors which use both diesel The new dairy in Aylesbury, UK, which started production in and liquified natural gas. These deliver a 15 per cent reduction in November 2013, has set new global standards in terms of carbon greenhouse gas emissions compared to standard tractors. efficiency and uses the latest technology for energy efficient processing. At our site in Nijkerk in the Netherlands, we have Packaging in focus succeeded in reducing the amount of water used by a third during In many core markets our customers are becoming increasingly the last three years due to water saving initiatives. interested in sustainable packaging. Our own ambition is to reduce green gas emissions by 25 per cent within packaging by Less waste 2020, compared to the 2005 level. In the UK we have made great Another goal within our environmental strategy is the significant progress by reducing the amount of plastic in our packaging. reduction of food and packaging waste. Working with researchers Read more about this in the Procurement chapter on page 13. we are investigating the relationship between food waste and the In countries where cartons are used for packaging liquid products role of packaging with consumers. the ambition is a challenge as the environmental impact of Waste from our sites has also been a priority. By sending cartons is already low. Furthermore, the demand for packaging for mixed waste from our Sipoo facility outside Helsinki, Finland, for convenience products increases the use of plastic. recycling into energy, more than 700 tonnes of waste is diverted from landfill per year. In Canada, we have made good progress by Continued energy and water savings utilising various recycling methods to divert 61 per cent of waste Arla’s environmental strategy includes efficiency targets of three from landfill. Waste of milk from Stourton creamery and dairy in per cent annual reduction in both water and energy consumption the UK has been reduced by 2,600 tonnes, as part of a continuous up to 2020. Consumption of water and energy has remained improvement project. unchanged, despite higher production volumes, and the efficiency Energy consumption Climate impact production volumes have led to prosecution. TWh millions of tons CO2-e Since there was deemed to be no environmental 2.0 breach of duty, the charges were dropped in 2011. 3.5 Decisions are yet to be taken for 2012 and 2013. 3.0 The production of cottage cheese is to be moved to 1.5 2.5 Falkenberg dairy, also in Sweden, starting 2014. 2.0 In Jönköping, Sweden, a limited product 1.0 1.5 leakage contaminated a small stream. The accident Oil caused no permanent damage, but the incident 1.0 0.5 Packaging Gas resulted in a notification of environmental breach of 0.5 Transport Bioenergy duty, which is being investigated. Operations 0 Electricity 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Criticism of climate compensation In late 2012, in Sweden, Arla was criticised for The diagram lists all Arla facilities at the end of 2013. Arla’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions the carbon offsets being carried out for Yoggi Previous years’ data has been updated. During from production, transportation and packaging Yalla® and many organic products. Claims were 2013, production volumes have increased, while by 25 per cent by 2020, compared to the 2005 made that farmers who manage tree plantations energy consumption was unchanged. levels. Since 2005, Arla’s total climate impact in Mozambique had not been paid as agreed and has decreased by 11 per cent, despite increased that we over-promised in our marketing of the International networks production. In 2014, further focus will be placed on initiative. In 2013, Arla conducted an external review Arla has collaborated with other global dairy reaching the 2020 goals. The greatest challenges to of the project and put tighter controls in place for companies in the Global Dairy Platform (GDP) to achieving the climate goal lie within transport. gathering feedback from our partners in the project. develop a Dairy Sustainability Framework. The aim The review showed that the farmers have been is to promote innovation in approaches to address Breach of duty at two plants paid, although once this was later than usual due sustainability. Increased demand for cottage cheese has led to to a lapse in administrative routines. The routines Arla has contributed to the work of the increased production at Skövde dairy, Sweden have now been improved and the project fulfills its International Dairy Federation (IDF) in revisiting during the last three years. In response to the purpose. Minor adjustments have also been made the carbon footprint guide for dairy products. In increase the dairy applied for an extended to the marketing communication. Arla has decided addition, we have contributed to the development environmental permit. The authority has neither for a step-wise transition to two projects in Uganda. of an IDF Biodiversity Framework. decided on permission, neither has it demanded In the autumn of 2013, Arla also visited the projects that production be limited. However, the increased in Mozambique and Uganda. 29 O U R RES PO N S I B I L I T Y 2 013 | CAR E FOR T HE ENV I RONM E NT AND ANIMAL WE L FARE “Efficient production is greener” PRONSFELD DAIRY is Arla’s main producer of long-life dairy products and is also Europe’s largest supplier of long-life milk for retailers’ own brands. The dairy has the capacity to receive 1.7 billion kilos of milk per year, which, put into perspective, is only slightly less than Arla’s entire production in Sweden. The dairy is one of the largest and most modern in Europe. “Pronsfeld is like a racehorse,” says Harald Jansen, head of engineering and technology at the plant, with technical responsibility for the dairy. “Our aim is to be the best when it comes to processing large volumes of milk quickly and efficiently. Our size and capacity have many benefits, but also some weaknesses.” The plant’s benefits are that it is able to process large quantities of milk efficiently, thanks to an automated production process that keeps costs down. This ensures the dairy is a reliable supplier for its customers. One of the downsides of being big, according to Harald Jansen, is that it does not permit the same flexibility to reorganise production, for example, to quickly readjust and begin production of small product runs or have many product changes. Continuing to draw on the metaphor of the horse, he says that the plant isn’t able to come to a sudden halt and quickly change direction. It is within large production runs that profitability lies, both financially and environmentally. A top-ranking plant Compared to Arla’s other dairies, Pronsfeld achieves especially high scores on energy and water consumption relative to production volumes. Why is that? “It’s a combination of several factors,” Harald Jansen explains. “One is that our technology is the best available for the nature of our production and we also have a very good understanding of this technology. Another is that we have strict environmental standards with which to comply, both from the regulators and that we set ourselves.” Harald Jansen, head of engineering and technology. “But there is another factor that is a strong driving force for us,” Harald Jansen adds, “and that is the current price pressure in our market segment. This compels us to continually optimise When Arla assessed its facilities everything we can, and to invest in the future.” for energy efficiency and Harald Jansen points to energy recovery in steam production and frequency-controlled electric motors throughout the plant environmental performance, as examples of measures aimed at improving energy efficiency. The plant also extracts biogas from sludge from waste water its dairy in Pronsfeld, Germany, treatment for use in steam production and recovers energy from product cooling processes. Another reason behind the impressive achieved top scores in several figures, he believes, is that the equipment within the plant was developed on site, giving Pronsfeld colleagues direct influence areas. over specifications and design. 30 CAR E FOR TH E E NVIRONME NT AND ANIMAL WE L FARE | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 The plant, which is located approximately 10 kilometres environmental and climate figures are so good. Efficient outside the municipality of Pronsfeld, has its own treatment facility production is greener. We benefit from making few product for waste water. After purification, the water is discharged into a changes, and we are constantly striving to reduce the amount of river, where measurements are taken continuously to test that the milk that is wasted. That’s a key focus for our process engineers.” water quality of the river is not affected. (See image on page 34.) One of the regulators’ environmental requirements is that these Optimising distribution measurements are available online. If the water quality is affected From a global perspective, transport to and from the dairy are the plant has a very short time in which to address the problem also very important. Harald Jansen believes the dairy’s location, before the regulators intervene and production is stopped. between its major customers as well as the port in the Netherlands, creates many opportunities. And, because customers buy large Investments to gain market share volumes, vehicles nearly always travel full. Despite this, the dairy Arla’s goal is to develop its existing dairies with the aim of continues to work to optimise distribution. increasing production of profitable products. In 2011, Pronsfeld “Several smaller dairies would make many more journeys began work to extend its production facility with a new unit for to smaller customers,” Harald Jansen reasons. “By training our the receipt and processing of milk as well as a drying tower for the drivers and carefully selecting the vehicles, we have succeeded in manufacture of milk powder. In early 2014, a new, modern butter reducing our diesel consumption significantly over the past few facility will also open. All these new operations use enhancements years.” to existing technology, especially for energy recovery. The heat At Pronsfeld, caring for the environment and climate is not from cooled products, for instance, will be recycled for use in milk just about optimising the facility and distribution. To compensate processing and for heating the premises. for the trees that were felled during the extension of the dairy, Investments require capital, however. Over the past two the same acreage of trees has been planted at another location years more than DKK 800 million has been invested in Pronsfeld. in the area. This was another regulatory requirement and it also Money has also been made available to make production more contributes to the environment of the local community. environmentally friendly through environmental improvement So what is Pronsfeld’s biggest challenge in the years ahead? initiatives. “To continue to reduce our energy consumption and the “Because our plant is so big, it has been possible to invest amount of water we use at the plant,” Harald Jansen concludes. in efficient technology,” Harald Jansen says. “That’s why our Head of engineering and technology, Harald Jansen (page 30), shares his view on the reasons behind the success and the limitations for a site as large as Pronsfeld. Photographs on this page show long-life milk packaging lines at the site. 31 We support sustainable agriculture. AGRICULTURE Towards increasingly sustainable dairy farming • Same quality programme for all farmers they are based and that we meet all customer requirements in an effective way. One common quality programme also makes it • Focus on sustainable dairy farming easier for us to move milk across national borders. • Organic production unchanged Working on a strategy for sustainable dairy farming Arlagården® launched in Germany Work on a new strategy for sustainable dairy farming continued Our quality assurance programme, Arlagården®, is a strong in 2013. This is an important part of the environmental contributing factor to the good reputation Arla has established strategy presented by Arla in 2011. The fact that we operate when it comes to environmental impact, animal welfare, milk on a sustainable basis throughout the chain of production is quality and food safety. In 2013, Arlagården® celebrated its tenth also increasingly of interest to our customers. The strategy for anniversary, and the programme has been adopted by Arla farmers sustainable dairy farming, which has been proposed, has four main in Denmark and Sweden for the same amount of time. As of October elements: 2013, Arlagården® is being implemented in Germany, Belgium and Animals Animal welfare demands in the Arlagården® quality Luxembourg too. The first farm audits in Germany were initiated in programme is mandatory for Arla farmers. Advice and new the autumn and this round of audits is expected to be completed knowledge will help to ensure that standards of animal welfare in 2016. To ensure that everyone understands Arlagården®, the improve further. programme has been translated into German, French and Flemish. Climate The aim is to reduce emissions per kg milk from It is already available in Danish, Swedish and English. supplying farms by 30 per cent by 2020 compared with 1990 In 2014, the roll out of Arlagården® will begin among Arla’s levels. The focus is on improved resource use. All farmers are British owners. In 2013, work began on producing a comparison offered climate impact assessments free of charge. between Arlagården® and the UK industry standard, Red Tractor Resources A target for reduced use of resources will be set in Farm Assurance Dairy Scheme. As in other owner countries, 2016 once improved data is available. The focus is on consumption the British version of Arlagården® must comply with national of animal feeds, energy and water per kg of milk. legislation. Nature The overall goal is to protect and promote biological Arlagården® is Arla’s way of ensuring that all milk suppliers diversity. Arla will be supporting nature conservation projects and meet the same high standards regardless of the country in which activities and continues to promote responsible soya bean farming. 32 AGRIC ULTURE | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 As we want all Arla farmers to contribute to the goals of The overall volume of organic milk in Sweden remains unchanged, the new strategy, many workshops have been held during the however. year. The UK has made most progress so far, holding nearly To ensure long-term security of supply for customers as well 200 workshops. Denmark and Sweden, which began the process as farmers, Arla has produced a demand forecast for organic milk slightly later, have both held about 40 workshops. Many farmers stretching to 2017. The conclusion is that the surplus of organic have also implemented Arla’s voluntary climate impact assessment milk in Denmark and Sweden will be sufficient to cover increased at their farms, with nearly 1,500 assessments completed to date. demand in Germany and China. Fulfilling all elements of the strategy is a major challenge, In Germany, Arla’s first organic product range launched and more research is needed. Arla is participating in several under the name of Arla BIO®, and is made from German and international collaborations, including being part of working Danish organic milk from certified suppliers. Demand for organic groups under the international SAI Platform (Sustainable milk in Denmark declined over the year, but has stabilised Agriculture Initiative) and the Global Dairy Agenda for Action, following increased activity to spread information about Arla’s which is formulating recommendations for sustainable environmental efforts. After a period of decline, sales of organic agricultural production. In Sweden, we are also taking part in products have increased in Sweden. Arla exports organic milk the Climate-smart Milk Production project run by the Swedish powder from Denmark to China, where it is mainly used in baby University of Agricultural Sciences which aims to reduce formula. emissions of greenhouse gases in milk production. Milk forecasts improve Arla’s profitability Continued demand for organic milk In the UK, we use a system under which some dairy farmers can Arla is the world’s largest supplier of organic milk products. In submit forecasts for their milk production for 24 months, at Denmark, organic milk accounts for eight per cent of all milk six-monthly intervals. During 2013 this was also introduced in delivered to Arla’s dairies and in Sweden the figure is 16 per Denmark and Sweden. The forecasts enable improved production cent. In the UK, Germany and Belgium the share is between one and workforce planning as well as more efficient production and and three per cent. In Sweden the number of organic farms has logistics. This is particularly important in the run-up to the major decreased slightly, partly due to new loose housing requirements changes that we expect when EU quotas are removed in 2015. for large stocks. This has resulted in some organic farms choosing not to expand while others have opted to cease milk production. Milk delivered to Arla dairies Action plans have been drawn up for our four largest H2AD Third generation anaerobic digestion unit core markets as part of our strategy for sustainable that can handle slurry and convert it into biogas, Other Denmark countries 1.3% 35.6% milk production. Arla Netherlands has already energy and fertiliser. In cooperation with Lindhurst Netherlands reached the target of 100 per cent sustainable soy Engineering, UK. 1.7% in farmfeed. Climate-smart milk production The aim is to Finland 2.2% contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas Germany, Improved milk quality emissions from milk production in a life cycle Belgium, Arla is working long-term to improve the quality of perspective. In cooperation with the Swedish Luxembourg 15.1% milk at our owner farms. As part of this effort, we University of Agricultural Sciences, Sweden. Sweden 15.9% UK 28.2% engage in testing and advisory activities to minimise the amount of heat-tolerant (thermo-resistant) Number of cows per farm About 14,500 farms deliver milk to Arla in Denmark, bacteria. If the bacterial count is too high, this can 2011 2012 2013 Sweden, the UK, Germany, Finland, Belgium and create problems at the dairies. Experience from Denmark 141 153 160 Luxembourg, accounting for 97 per cent of Arla’s our advisory activities shows that the key measure United Kingdom 123 126 127 total volume. In these and other markets, where we for maintaining a low bacterial count is thorough Sweden 66 70 74 also buy milk from local suppliers, we ensure that cleaning of the milking facility and milk tank on Germany 47 49 52 the milk meets our quality requirements. The total farms. Continuous information has been included Finland 25 28 29 volume of milk delivered to Arla’s dairies increased in the owner’s newsletter and an information sheet Belgium 52 54 56 by 22 per cent over the year. which summarises the key findings relating to the Luxembourg 57 58 59 cleaning of milking equipment has been distributed Source: National trade associations Responsible farmed soya to Arla farmers in Sweden and Denmark. In January 2012, Arla decided to bring forward The number of cows per farm is an average which the transition to responsible soya in view of the R&D in sustainable development of farming includes all dairy farmers in each country. negative impact of soya bean farming on humans Arla supports the following current projects: and the environment in South America. The goal Nitrogen use A research alliance to identify new 1,500 is to ensure that all soya used as animal feed for ideas to optimise nitrogen use at farm level. In cows at Arla dairy farms is farmed according to cooperation with Aarhus University, Denmark. the principles and criteria defined by the Round Reprolac A research project that aims to develop Table on Responsible Soy Association (RTRS) by a feeding/production strategy with less feed input 2015. In 2013, we engaged with key stakeholders per kg milk produced. In cooperation with Aarhus in Denmark, Sweden and the UK to find common University, Denmark and INRA, France. opportunities to enable full use of responsible soya. climate impact assessments completed. 33 Respectful relations Arla has relationships with people, organisations, communities and countries. No matter what the relationship is, we are committed to maintaining mutual respect. 34 Workplace Arla has 19,600 colleagues in 30 countries throughout the world. We strive to continually improve our work environment and organisation. We also work to strengthen our corporate culture, Our Character, which describes what we stand for and how we behave in order to achieve our common targets, uniting us despite differences in historical and cultural backgrounds. If all colleagues enjoy good working conditions, and are committed to their work, together we can do the best job possible. See page 36. Community relations We accept extensive responsibility for community relations within the framework of our core business. In addition, we endeavour to involve ourselves in wider social issues which are relevant to our business activities. We want to contribute to the development of communities and do so by building long-term relationships with people, businesses and organisations. See page 38. Human rights We have production facilities in many countries and our products are sold throughout the world. We also operate in countries that do not yet have fully recognised human rights or that do not yet live up to them. Regardless of the country in which we have operations, we maintain a firm conviction that the human rights of every individual should be respected and upheld. See page 42. Testing the water quality outside the Pronsfeld site in Germany. Cooperation between the dairy’s representative, to the left, and the authority’s, to the right. 35 We have competent and committed employees, and provide safe and healthy working conditions. WORKPLACE Concern for colleagues in a more global company • High colleague engagement by trust in leadership and appreciation that work is organised to minimise stress and absence. • New talent programmes launched • Global leadership in focus Challenges being a more global company Arla is in a rapid transition phase, transforming from a group of Barometer colleague survey several strong national dairy companies to a major global player The annual colleague survey, Barometer, was conducted in in the industry. Rapid development brings many changes and our November. The survey was sent to over 16,700 colleagues in challenge is to maximise the output of the skills and development 27 countries and in 14 different languages. The response rate was potential of every colleague and leader. It is Arla’s ambition to 85 per cent. This year we have introduced a new category – Agility continue to be an attractive workplace and to create good working – to understand if we are well prepared for change and thereby conditions for colleagues at every level. ready to fulfil our strategic targets for rapid global growth. As Arla becomes ever more global, the need for international The results show continuously high colleague engagement and leaders, who are willing to move to new countries and continents, improvements in almost all areas of measurement. Colleagues are increases. However, we are finding it a challenge to ensure aligned with the global strategy and, at the same time, would like sufficient management mobility. to receive more information about what is happening within Arla It is important for Arla that its leaders are well prepared as their as a whole. They also expressed a wish that the business groups’ role becomes gradually more global. With this in mind, Arla has goals are more clear. The new Agility score is very satisfying, launched a Global Talent Accelerator Programme. Its purpose is to however colleagues said they would like to be more involved in develop a strong and competent leadership pipeline. More than changes. Bureaucracy continues to be raised as an issue which 480 colleagues were nominated and 29 were selected to join this requires management focus. The results also show the importance year’s programme. Participants are leaders, senior leaders and top of an ongoing dialogue with colleagues about their individual leaders coming from six different countries. Of the group, 19 are professional development. The largest decline concerned the male and 10 are female. question about individual professional development. The two year graduate programme, Future 15, continues, and The single most improved result is in relation to colleagues the on-going Future 15 programmes have 28 participants with experiencing the benefit of diversity in their department, followed 11 different nationalities. In addition, we have begun a three year 36 WORKPL AC E | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Supply Chain Leader Talent Programme, combining leadership 24 colleagues. Ten of these later enrolled at a new education skills and technical competence with candidates from the UK, programme – EDEN Engineering – which is a combination of dairy Denmark, Poland and Greece. and engineering training. We strive to recruit students local to our sites. Continued leadership training In Sweden, Arla has launched a new dairy course similar to the It is of great importance that all leaders in Arla know and act Danish dairy technologist education at Kold College in Denmark, according to the company’s core values and practices. Therefore, on which Swedish students are currently enrolled. In addition, we specific leadership courses have been arranged for leaders in the are providing training for our partner company Mengniu, where we relatively new German-Dutch organisation and for leaders from have facilitated training in Lean and in category management for Milk Link with which we merged in the UK. 100 colleagues in Chinese Mengniu’s sales organisation. The ALP (Arla Leadership Programme) for middle managers and managers in Arla has now been running for four years. The Continuous skills development aim of the training is to reinforce the connection between the In Denmark, assessing the reading, writing and mathematics skills company’s ambitious strategy for growth and managers’ individual of colleagues has continued and more than 3,700 colleagues have areas of responsibility. In 2013, 256 colleagues enrolled on one of taken part in the assessment. Approximately 600 of these have the three ALP programmes – Arla specialist, Leading others and continued with further education to increase their basic skills. Leading leaders. The senior management programme, Leading We strive to raise the level of basic competences of all colleagues functions, has 49 new participants from Arla globally. and have helped many with dyslexia. A similar program has run in Oakthorpe dairy in the UK. Colleague development Since 2009, almost 900 drivers in Denmark have participated Arla needs highly qualified colleagues and therefore contributes in a training programme which focuses on both driving skills actively to education and training courses. In the UK, the EDEN and food hygiene. This training is now being extended to the UK (European Dairy Education Now) professional dairy qualification, business. for which Arla was one of the driving forces, has attracted Accidents at work imposed fines. One was a fall from a truck, the other Strong colleague engagement The number of workplace accidents involving more due to insufficient shielding on a machine. At Concord dairy in Canada, Arla has successfully than one day’s absence per million working hours. Since 2012, Nijkerk dairy in the Netherlands improved colleague’s engagement in, and has put increased emphasis on accident reduction. ownership for, the products they produce. New 25 The dairy has introduced a new and improved risk leadership practices, involving colleagues, creating 20 assessment tool in order to further support the new competencies and improvements to the facility safety, health and wellbeing of colleagues. have delivered very positive results. 15 Closer to Arla Outplacement and hiring 10 During the year, we have launched our new global Due to dairy closures and relocating operations, 5 colleague magazine, Closer to Arla, in eight versions: we continue to offer job seeking training in English International, English UK, Danish, Swedish, Denmark, Sweden and the UK. We also contact 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 German, Dutch, Finnish and Russian. The magazine other companies to help colleagues, whose enables us to share stories, case studies and position has been made redundant, find alternative The total number of workplace accidents has inspiration globally in addition to localised content employment. During the year, approximately 300 decreased by seven per cent since last year, even more in each edition. positions in Denmark, Sweden and the UK have at some sites, but unfortunately increased at others. been made redundant due to structural changes The total number has decreased with almost 30 per Attracting the best talent and rationalisation initiatives. cent since 2009, and in Sweden with a third since last Arla’s goal is to be employer of choice among It has been a very different scenario at our new year, from an already low level. Both UK and Sweden potential candidates in our target groups in order dairy in Aylesbury, in the UK where there has been report a total accident frequency of 11. Previous years’ to recruit and retain the best talent. Consequently, a lot of positions to fill. To encourage employment data has been updated. The frequency per individual we are working to become better known among of residents from the Aylesbury area we have held site differs between zero and more than 60. students to build a talent pipeline. For this reason local assessment centres and an open evening for we have established a number of partnerships with people from the local community to talk to Arla Progress in occupational health and safety key universities in our core markets. In addition, we colleagues and learn about the new site and the 85% We are currently developing a global system for offer internships, thesis cooperation, and student jobs available. reporting and following up illness rates, based on workplaces, for example. our common definition. Furthermore, in all parts of During the last few years we have taken steps the organisation, we focus on reducing the number to strengthen our image as an employer by creating of accidents and creating a safe workplace, both by media strategies for employer branding and working with attitudes and behaviour-based safety communication based on target group analyses. and by eliminating technical risks. Our improved communications are having the In Denmark, the Working Environment desired effect and our rankings among students and Authority ruled that two accidents violated the young professionals have improved, particularly in was the response rate for the annual colleague Danish Working Environment Act and subsequently Denmark and Sweden. survey, Barometer. 37 We maintain good, respectful and constructive community relations. COMMUNITY RELATIONS We build lasting relationships • Local commitment with a global perspective us in a position to drive important issues. During the year we have been in active dialogue with politicians, ministers and government • Arla Foundation launched representatives, members of the European Parliament and other • Farm visits popular parties. The aim has been to draw attention to issues relating to the dairy industry’s opportunities to take responsibility for Engaging with society locally and globally promoting sustainable development. In Denmark, Arla’s chief Arla’s primary contribution to society is the food we produce, but executive is chairman of the government’s growth group for the also the creation of jobs and influencing economic growth in those food industry and he is deputy chairman of the board of governors localities and countries in which we operate. We strive to be a for Aarhus University, Denmark. good employer and a reliable member of society. We also engage Another way to spread knowledge about our products’ origins in areas that are closely related to our value and production chain, and what happens at the farm is to invite the public to visit our such as milk and where it comes from, milk as a nutritious food owners’ farms. Every year, in Sweden, we invite about 50,000 product, inspiration for cooking and a healthy lifestyle, and nature schoolchildren to our owners’ farms and we provide teaching and the environment. materials about life on the farm free of charge. Since the start We would like to unite the company around an initiative with in 1993, more than 900,000 children have visited an Arla farm. which we could engage colleagues all around the world but, to Similar activities take place in Denmark, Germany, Belgium and date, priority has been given to local activities linked to our various Luxembourg. focus areas, see fact field. Local anchorage is important to us which is why companies in the group contribute to their local community The Arla Foundation gives knowledge for life in the way they feel is most appropriate and fosters most colleague In late 2012, in Denmark, Arla launched a long-term initiative called involvement. the Arla Foundation. The Foundation will actively support children aged 10 to 14 to learn more about cooking, natural produce and Engaging in public debate outdoor physical activities in the countryside. The goal is to inspire As a representative of the food industry and the dairy farmers who this generation to adopt a healthy and sustainable lifestyle. are our owners, Arla has a responsibility to engage in public debate. In 2013, a number of children’s camps focusing on cooking, In Denmark and Sweden Arla is a well-known company, which puts resource saving and the joy of food were organised on a pilot basis. 38 COMMUNITY RE L ATIONS | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 The teaching integrates knowledge about food with core subjects Foundations in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Norway. Rynkeby such as natural sciences and mathematics. The ambition is to offer Foods contributes about DKK four million to the event. 10 per cent of all Danish children aged 12 to 13 the opportunity to attend a camp. Milk cartons as a communication channel The backs of milk cartons are a channel for spreading knowledge Team Rynkeby is growing and inspiration and are used in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Since 2002, Rynkeby Foods has arranged the Team Rynkeby the Netherlands. In Denmark we have, for instance, published cycling event, which raises money for the Children’s Cancer information about recycling packaging and ways to reduce the Foundation. The charitable event has grown over the years amount of food that is wasted. In Sweden we have printed similar and, in 2013, around 1,000 people representing 21 teams from messages along with a series which is designed to stimulate Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Norway participated. Everyone interest in learning about everything from natural phenomena takes part on a non-profit basis and participants spend seven days to mathematics. Sharing knowledge about work at the farm and cycling from Scandinavia to Paris in France. This is in addition to various sports are other recurring themes. In Finland and the many hours spent training, engaging sponsors and collecting Netherlands the backs of cartons are used mainly for product money for the charity. Collectively, the participating teams raised information. DKK 23 million, which was donated to the Children’s Cancer A variety of local activities Arla farm visits Below we present a selection of local Number of visitors 2011 2012 2013 community relations activities from all over the Cows out to pasture, Denmark 63,000 86,000 92,000 world, including some minor and other more Cows out to pasture, Sweden 100,000 125,000 150,000 comprehensive examples. Farm visit for school classes, Denmark 15,000 11,500 11,600 Farm visit for school classes, Sweden 43,000 50,000 50,000 Supporting charity Farm visit for school classes, Germany 5,800* 9,500** 12,000 Since 2008, Arla has been running a long-term * Hansa Arla Milch ** Hansa Arla Milch and MUH project called Children for Life, which aims to give children a better future by providing food and Visiting our owners’ farms in the spring, when the to ensure that we are a good member of society and supporting their education. Since its launch we cows are let out to pasture, is a very popular activity an attractive employer. have been working with SOS Children’s Villages in Denmark and Sweden. In 2013, the number of in the Dominican Republic. In Bangladesh our visitors was higher than ever. In Denmark, open days Community activities commitment continues in partnership with a local at farms and nature festivals have also attracted In several markets we arranged breakfast gatherings charity organisation. 130,000 visitors (2012: 126,000). In Finland, a few to raise awareness about the importance of eating a The humanitarian organisation Médecins sans farm visits for schoolchildren have been arranged good breakfast. Read more on page 22. Promoting Frontières (MSF) helps people in crisis across the when the cows are let out to pasture. In Denmark a sustainable environment is another goal on which world. Arla Foods Ingredients has chosen to support and the UK we invite schoolchildren to visit our we have focussed. In Denmark and Sweden, for this work through an annual financial donation and dairies. Some dairies in Germany also host such instance, we have a dialogue with the World Wide to inform MSF about our findings of clinical studies visits. Fund for Nature (WWF). In these countries and in into the nutritional properties of milk components. the Netherlands we are also working with nature Every year, Arla also takes part in charitable Food as charity conservation groups. projects in support of local charities. Many of our Reducing the amount of food that goes to waste, We have also contributed to many local sports colleagues engage in non-profit work in their free in our own operations as well as in consumers’ events and wildlife experiences. In the Netherlands time. Arla’s Community Challenge in the UK homes, is part of our environmental strategy. In we are supporting two nature conservation projects contributes money to projects to which colleagues several countries, including the UK, Germany, close to our Nijkerk plant and encourage children devote their free time. In 2013, 28 projects (2012: the Netherlands, Canada, Denmark and Finland, to help promote biological diversity through tree 37) received support. we are working with organisations to ensure that planting projects. In Russia, we support parks in In the Netherlands, Arla has been one of the good quality surplus food, which does not meet St Petersburg and an aviary in a park in Moscow. initiators of the Do Social foundation, which aims the retailers’ minimum shelf life requirements, is We are sponsoring a rugby organisation in the at giving support to the elderly and those needing distributed to those in need. UK which works to stimulate an interest in sport care. In Canada and the USA we sponsor events among children and young people. We are working where the money raised is used for cancer research Arla as a neighbour with the Swedish Olympic Committee to organise and in the UK, we work with a national cancer care In those places where we have facilities or where we local events where schoolchildren are given an charity. In Russia we provide support to children’s build new ones, we acknowledge we have an impact opportunity to try different sports. In Sweden, homes and hospitals and in Sweden we sent a on the local environment, and we are always keen we also support several other sporting events for Christmas gift to the Children’s Cancer Foundation. to ensure that we maintain good relations with local children and young people, including ski schools In Denmark, Rynkeby Foods has supported a UN residents and the local community. In the article and football tournaments. In Germany we support campaign aimed at raising awareness about positive on the next spread we describe how the issues and local football and volleyball clubs. 446,000 and tangible results of aid projects. concerns raised by local residents were handled prior to and during the construction of our new dairy in Aylesbury, in the UK. Another example is our large dairy in the countryside close to Pronsfeld, visitors to Arla farms in Denmark, Sweden and Germany. Here, like in many other places, we need Germany during 2013. 39 O U R RES PO N S I B I L I T Y 2 013 | R ES PECT FUL R ELAT I ONS “Being a ‘good neighbour’ means being open and honest” GOOD COMMUNITY RELATIONS are an important part of Arla’s Code of Conduct and the cooperative claims to take its role as an employer and corporate citizen very seriously. In 2010, when Arla announced its intention to build the world’s largest fresh milk dairy in Aylesbury, outside London, community relations were put to the test as several local residents were concerned about the effects of the site and against the change the new site would bring to the area. While change was going to be inevitable, the benefit of the dairy to the local community is the provision of approximately 700 new jobs when the dairy operates at full capacity, in addition to almost 1,000 construction-related jobs during the site’s development. “A project of this size is new for us and we did everything we could to secure a positive outcome in the planning process and to ensure that all local stakeholders had the opportunity to engage. It was very important to us that we incorporated their input in the final plan,” explains Tim Evans, Arla’s senior director for supply chain development, with overall responsibility for the Aylesbury project. Involvement of local residents The consultation process prior to the final planning application being submitted was thorough. Arla was committed to ensuring opportunities for people to share their views on the proposal. Measures included the development of a dedicated Aylesbury section on the Arla UK website that included all plans and exhibition materials. Three public consultation events were also held, attended by almost 300 local residents. Tim Evans, senior director. “At the meetings, we handed out comment forms for residents to provide feedback,” says Tim Evans. “We also held many individual meetings with key stakeholders, for example Parish When Arla announced its Councils, and we posted out a brochure that outlined our full proposal and a key facts document to all local residents.” intention to build one of the Initially, the major concerns from residents were traffic and the look of the facility. With an average of 20 trucks per hour entering world’s largest fresh milk dairies and leaving the site and several hundred people making the journey to work at the site, residents were worried this would be outside London, the proposal disruptive and create congestion. Thorough preparation allowed received a positive reception Arla to respond to all the questions it was asked. For example, in terms of transport, it was able to share the routing strategy for and some strong opposition. Arla vehicles. It could allay concerns that lorries would not use local village roads by communicating the strategic road network How did Arla work with those routes being adopted and explain it would be investing in the local highway to improve the flow of traffic. Arla clarified that Aylesbury stakeholders who were for and was chosen as it provides the optimal location between the farmers supplying the milk and the consumer base in the densely against the project? populated south east of England. 40 RE SPEC TFUL RE L ATIONS | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 Change of master plan traffic lights. This was a requirement of the planning application, Having listened to all the concerns, many changes were made to the intention being that this would not only help ease the the master plan. For example, the scale of some of the buildings impact of the proposed Arla traffic, but would also improve the was reduced as well as the height of the raw milk silos. The colour existing operations at the junctions. Other complaints have been of the proposed buildings and silos was adjusted. Additional construction vehicles using the wrong roads and complaints about woodland and planting was included to provide a screen around the mud on the road on which the dairy is situated, which was the entire site. A noise mitigation strategy was established to dirtying cars using this route. Arla responded and put measures in ensure that there is no discernible noise impact. In addition, roof place to rectify the situations, for example, paying a professional lights were removed and no sodium lights allowed, for example, to company to regularly clean the road. reduce any light impact to a minimum. Another source of contention was in spring 2013 when a section of a canal, adjacent to the dairy, collapsed and there Continuous engagement with stakeholders was speculation as to whether the construction of the dairy Following the submission of the planning application Arla sought contributed to this. The investigation as to the cause of the to continue to engage with stakeholders in different ways. collapse is still ongoing. Arla has been cooperating fully with Quarterly community liaison meetings were established to open the investigation and supported the repair of the canal lock by up communication channels and a newsletter was created. granting access via the site. “Concerning the improvements to the road network,” says Tim Evans, “we issued a press release in advance of these beginning to From decision to production in three years raise awareness. We also posted a letter to all affected residents to In November 2013, the first milk for retail customers rolled off the inform them of the works and included a plan to show the changes filling lines. Arla will continue its dialogue with the liaison group. so that they were fully informed of the work being undertaken and What advice would Tim Evans give to those managing construction the outcome of this.” projects of this kind? Since construction began, the main resistance continues “Engage with local stakeholders at the earliest opportunity to be associated with the roadworks, including the noise from so that they are fully consulted with, know what is happening and the machinery and the timings at which the work took place. In have an opportunity to share their views. Also, be in no doubt hindsight, Tim Evans acknowledges that Arla could have been that communication is crucial right from the very outset of the more specific in the letter about the noise that would be generated project. It cannot be done retrospectively – you will lose credibility. as the levels did draw several complaints. Be upfront, honest and open. People don’t like surprises. Being a Also associated with the roadworks, there has been some ‘good neighbour’ means being open and honest, even if reality is negative criticism about two roundabouts being replaced with going to be met with resistance,” he concludes. Tim Evans, Arla’s senior director for supply chain development (page 40), with overall responsibility for the Aylesbury project, gives his view on community relations in relation to the construction of the new dairy outside London, UK. 41 We respect and support internationally recognised human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS Firm belief in respect for human rights • Continuous focus on diversity discussions and engaged in the process. In total, 240 colleagues and elected representatives have participated. • More female colleagues in Saudi Arabia During 2013, a revised recruitment process and policy have • Barometer results on behaviour been implemented. We have continued to improve awareness internally of how to attract potential new colleagues and recruit Equal rights for all them in order to ensure a more diverse pool of candidates. Part As Arla expands in new markets all over the world, we acknowledge of this has been achieved by evaluating the images and language the challenge that can arise regarding cultural differences in used in our job advertisements. In addition, managers have been different countries. However, regardless of the country in which trained in how to avoid personal or cultural biases when selecting we operate, we maintain firm in our conviction to always respect candidates. The recent mergers and the globalisation of the human rights. business have improved awareness among leaders and colleagues of the importance of diversity in the company. Following up our diversity strategy Arla’s corporate language policy was finalised in 2012, stating Arla began working, systematically and globally, with diversity and English as our corporate language. Focus during 2013 has been inclusion in 2010 and, since then, has increased its focus in this on ensuring that colleagues in Arla national offices, for example, area. We want to ensure that everyone is treated equally regardless who do not speak the local language, are not excluded. As soon of their gender, ethnicity, social or national origins, race, skin as a colleague not speaking the local language is present, the colour, religion or beliefs, sexual orientation, political views, age, conversation is held in English. The same is applied to written disability or marital status. In addition, we believe that diversity communication. among our colleagues, each of whom has different views on the The single most improved result in this year’s colleague survey, world around us, positively benefits the company’s development. is that colleagues have experienced the benefit of diversity in their Our main undertaking in 2013 has been to further implement the department. strategy developed in 2011. We have conducted several competence building sessions and have trained leaders and managers at different Gender diversity targets organisational levels, as well as HR colleagues. Members of the Board The agreed target for 2017 for gender diversity at Arla’s top and upper of Representatives and Board of Directors have also been involved in management levels is for women to hold 20 per cent of Arla’s Top 50 42 H UMAN RIGH TS | OUR RE SPONSIB IL ITY 2 0 1 3 positions. The target for gender composition in the Board of Directors In total, 17 per cent said they have experienced unacceptable will be decided in a longer process by the Board during 2014. behaviour (15 per cent the year before). When asked if they had reported it, 44 per cent said yes. Of those who commented on Clear data on diversity whether the issue had been resolved, 46 per cent reported that it As a result of the company’s inability to track nationality, seniority and had been and to their satisfaction. The analysis of the results was other key data in Arla’s current HR systems, a project called Clarity not finalised when this report was published. was defined in early 2013. The objectives of Clarity are to provide relevant and trustworthy HR data, in order to monitor and report key Dialogue in the Third World data, for example, the spread of nationalities in a business group or a When we visit and audit our partners in the Third World, we department, in countries where this is permitted. In addition, we want cover many topics but focus specifically on human rights issues, to be able to track internal mobility to answer questions including, including child labour and working conditions. It is important that do females have the same access to higher level jobs as males? The our business partners understand our point of view and respect ability to answer questions such as these, combined with a global our Code of Conduct, which also encompasses many other areas. job profiling system, will also enable us to clarify whether females, During 2013, Arla’s representatives have visited all suppliers holding the same positions as males, are being paid fairly. The goal, in Nigeria and Bangladesh, as well as several potential suppliers by 2014, is to enable online tracking of key HR data. in Bangladesh. In Nigeria we work with a packing plant and three packaging suppliers. During the visits, we concluded that one supplier Results from colleague survey was not fulfilling all our requirements. Consequently, we no longer The results of Arla’s annual colleague survey, Barometer, were work with this supplier. In Bangladesh, we have replaced one of our published in December 2013. A number of questions concerning suppliers as it was not able to answer our questions satisfactorily. colleagues’ perception of how well they feel they are treated We have updated our audit methodology and increased the were included in the survey. If colleagues answered yes to the number of questions regarding social responsibility. As we have question: “In the past 12 months, have you personally experienced prioritised this area, we will increase the number of audits and unacceptable behaviour that has affected you” we have sought follow up visits in 2014. to understand the kind of unacceptable behaviour they have experienced. Share of female colleagues Colleagues by age for example, results and prioritised actions as a % % result of the colleague survey, integration of new 40 30 sites and structural changes in the organisation. 25 All colleagues at Arla are able to provide input into 30 the agenda. Colleague feedback and the items 20 suggested for these meetings indicate that most 20 15 colleagues at Arla feel well represented by the different unions, and that the many years of good 10 10 working relations between the unions and Arla have 5 continued in the enlarged company. 0 0 2011 2012 2013 –19 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60– Female colleagues in Saudi Arabia Total “Top 300� “Top 50” Since 2012, in Saudi Arabia, Arla has been able to offer work to women. Developments in Saudi The share of females varies in different parts of The spread of ages among Arla colleagues is Arabia in recent years have resulted in it now being the organisation. Among our top managers there currently satisfactory. Age should not be, and is not, easier to employ women, although employers have are significantly fewer women than men, and the a factor during recruitment. Arla values the fact that to take special measures. For example, a number number hasn’t increased during the last few years. its workforce comprises a balanced mix of ages. of practical issues have to be resolved. In 2013, At lower managerial levels, the share of women is the number of women employed increased to higher. One of our focus areas is the recruitment of European Work Council 36 mainly within production but also in marketing more women to our most senior positions. As we In addition to Arla’s cooperation with representatives and export departments. The feedback from the have a strong recruitment base, in the longer term of trade union organisations at a national level, women is very positive. Having female colleagues it should be possible to achieve a more even gender we have a European Work Council (EWC), which is is also valuable as we are able to learn more about 27% distribution in top management, reflecting the Arla’s European labour relations forum. In the EWC, Saudi consumers. gender distribution in the company as a whole. representatives of labour market organisations in Denmark, Sweden, the UK, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Poland meet members of corporate management and HR managers from business groups and functions. The inclusion of new organisations from the UK and Germany, during 2013, has been reflected in the EWC. The council meets twice a year and discusses relevant issues from all of Arla’s sites in Europe, of the colleagues at Arla are women. 43 Arla supports the Global Compact Six years ago, Arla signed up to the Global Compact, the UN initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s 10 fundamental principles. The table below shows where the content of this report relates to each of the principles. The Global Compact principles BUSINESSES SHOULD… ARLA EXAMPLES PAGE HUMAN RIGHTS 1. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Business principles 8–9 human rights; and Procurement 12–13 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Market conduct 14–15 Food and health 22–23 Case study 24–25 Workplace 36–37 Community relations 38–39 Human rights 42–43 LABOUR 3. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Business principles 8–9 of the right to collective bargaining; Procurement 12–13 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Market conduct 14–15 Workplace 36–37 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Human rights 42–43 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Business principles 8–9 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Procurement 12–13 responsibility; and Market conduct 14–15 Environment and climate 28–29 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Case study 30–31 friendly technologies. Agriculture 32–33 Community relations 38–39 Case study 40–41 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Business principles 8–9 and bribery. Market conduct 14–15 Since 2008, Arla has been a member of the Global Compact’s Global Compact and UNIFEM (the UN Development Fund for Nordic Network, and in May 2009, Arla signed up to Caring for Women). Climate, a voluntary and complementary action platform, which Read more about the Global Compact and its principles at seeks to demonstrate leadership around the issue of climate www.unglobalcompact.org, and more about Arla’s Code of change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO signed a CEO Statement of Support Conduct at www.arla.com. for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative from the 44 Which market is mentioned where? The table below shows where information about a specific Arla market or subsidiary can be found in this report. CHAPTER PAGE DK UK SE DE NL FI OTHER Business principles 8–9 ● ● ● ● ● ● Operational principles 10–11 ● ● ● ● ● Belgium, Luxembourg Procurement 12–13 ● ● ● ● Market conduct 14–15 ● ● ● ● ● ● China, Russia, Saudi Arabia, USA Case study 16–17 Russia Food safety 20–21 ● ● ● ● ● China Food and health 22–23 ● ● ● ● ● ● Bangladesh, China, Lebanon, Malawi, Saudi Arabia, UAE Arla Foods Ingredients Case study 24–25 ● Malawi Arla Foods Ingredients Environment and climate 28–29 ● ● ● ● ● ● Canada Case study 30–31 ● Agriculture 32–33 ● ● ● ● ● ● Belgium, China, Luxembourg Workplace 36–37 ● ● ● ● ● ● Canada, China, Greece, Poland, Russia Community relations 38–39 ● ● ● ● ● ● Bangladesh, Belgium, Canada, Dominican Republic, France, Luxembourg, Norway, Russia, USA Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby Foods Case study 40–41 ● Human rights 42–43 ● ● ● ● ● ● Bangladesh, Nigeria, Poland, Saudi Arabia 45 Arla Foods amba Arla Foods UK plc Sønderhøj 14 4 Savannah Way DK-8260 Viby J. Leeds Valley Park Denmark Leeds, LS10 1 AB England Phone +45 89 38 10 00 Phone +44 113 382 7000 E-mail arla@arlafoods.com E-mail arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com www.arlafoods.co.uk
