BOWMAN ORGANIC FARMS Ltd P.O Box 29 Thornville, Ohio 43076 USA COP 2013/14 UN Global Compact 801 2nd Ave., 2nd Floor New York, NY. 10017 USA Human Rights Assessment Policy; “I am pleased to confirm that Bowman Organic Farms supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, and Bowman Organic Farms respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and feel prudent in our stands again human rights injustices. Implementation; Bowman Organic Farms has established policies/practices based on code of conduct for our employees, management and board to maintain and follow for a safe and cohesive work environment.” Measurement of Outcome; Periodic review of results by senior management. Brian Bowman CEO, Bowman Organic Farms, USA, COP for 2014 Labor Principles Assessment Policy; “Bowman Organic Farms upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collectively bargaining. Our policies eliminate the forms of force and compulsory labor and we do not support the use of child labor. Bowman Organic Farms does not support discrimination based on ethnic, religious, gender, or any other forms of racial discrimination.” Implementation; Consultation with employees and all stakeholders including corporate accounts herein the U.S.A., and abroad. Measurement of Outcome; Periodic review of results by senior management. Brian Bowman CEO, Bowman Organic Farms, USA, COP for 2014 Environmental Principles Assessment Policy; “Bowman Organic Farms support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and takes steps in our day-to-day operations to limit our impact on the environment. With this we have established policies and operating procedures to decrease our carbon foot print and continue to educate others and require business partners and suppliers to adhere our environmental principles for global responsibility of organic, biodynamic and healthier living.” Implementation; We are currently reviewing plans for a completely off the electrical grid, standalone vegetable production greenhouse operation run via wind mill generation and closed loop geothermal systems. Measurement of outcome; Periodic review of our own operations by senior management along with reviewing current and new corporate accounts herein the U.S.A., and abroad by their carbon footprint. Brian Bowman CEO, Bowman Organic Farms, USA, COP for 2014 Anti-Corruption Assessment; “Bowman Organic Farms established a double check system to ensure our company against all forms of corruption, to include but not limited to extortion and bribery. Our goal is to be forthcoming with all and any issues associated with these concerns and abide by all state, federal and international laws in which we and our suppliers and corporate accounts conduct business.” Implementation; Protocols in place to guide all staff members and employees in situations where they are confronted with said allegations of bribery and extortion. All employees are instructed to report all offenses in writing to no less than three senior staff members, Director of Human Resources, Vice President, Regional Managers, President and/or Board Members for review of action to be taken. Measurement of Outcome; Internal quarterly audits to ensure consistency with ant-corruption commitment, including periodic reviews by senior management. Brian Bowman CEO, Bowman Organic Farms, USA, COP for 2014 A copy of our (COP) commitment to the UN Global Compact is made available to all employees and stake holders of Bowman Organic Farms in writing and online. All documents for the above as mentioned are for primary employees, management, board members and corporate accounts. BOWMAN ORGANIC FARMS Ltd. To whom it may Concern, May 26, 2014 I am delighted to confirm that Bowman Organic Farms reaffirms its support of the Ten Principle of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We uphold our commitment to our employees, board and the United Nations in our quest to maintain the established policies and goals set forth to create a healthier and safe environment for all associated with us. Keeping our communications open we hope to maintain this atmosphere for your current and future employees. Sincerely, Brian Bowman CEO Bowman Organic Farms By my name appearing on this document I affirm this to be my electronic-signature and I attest and affirm that all information provided is correct and accurate. P.O. Box 29 Thornville, Ohio 43076 USA
