Successful new launch in South Africa A new branch office and stock went into operation in Johannesburg August 2013, locally staffed. www.danimex.com Global responsibility Communication on Progress June 2014 Statement by the CEO At Danimex Communication A/S we are proud to present our 5th annual report. Being a member of the UN Global Compact has given us the opportunity to reasses and confirm our values on a regular basis and to sum up our annual CSR progress. Achievements of the past year are numerous. Most significant is the establishment of a local office in South Africa, hiring a local workforce as well as local management. Another milestone is the creation of a TETRA network in Ivory Coast, inviting small businesses as well as community services to lease capacity. This is breaking new ground in Africa and making secure communication more affordable and manageable. 2 This year we welcome the sun more than ever, as we have developed a new solar power kit for use in regions, where the absense or instability of public power supplies makes renewable sources a better choice. Our solar power kits have become an integral part of wireless network solutions produced and implemented by Danimex and our resellers. Having been a member since 2008, we hereby confirm our continued support of the UN Global Compact. Please accept this report as a token of our general commitment to the United Nations, to its goals and to our common values already set and followed at Danimex Communication: We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and will conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. I hereby invite you to read our Communication on Progress 2014, explaining our approach to issues in focus, our progress and our way ahead. Jytte Kaufmann Thomsen Managing Director Danimex Communication A/S Contents Page 2 Statement by the CEO Page 4 Danimex Communication in brief Page 6 UN Global Compact the 10 principles Page 7 About “Communication in Progress Page 7 Danimex core values Page 8 Danimex code of conduct Page 9 Principles 6 Labour and Human rights Page 11 Principles 10 Anti Corruption Page 14 Overview: Actions implemented or planned for the next year Page 15 Principle 7 Environment Page 18 The World’s Best News 3 Danimex employee installing communication network in Africa Danimex Communication in brief Danimex Communication A/S is a global distributor of communications solutions and equipment with more than 30 years of experience in deliveries to humanitarian organizations, NGOs, defence, security and government organizations as well as modern industry. The head office is located in Denmark, with offices in UAE, Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa. Radio based communication The core expertise of Danimex is to set up local, radio based networks. Analog or digital. Mobile, handheld or fixed installations. Anything from small and nimble to extensive networks, serving all communication needs. Danimex delivers basic hardware as well as customised, integrated systems for special purposes. Danimex is a certified Motorola distributor, but handles other brands as well, such as Vertex, Damm and Thrane & Thrane. Satellite based and high capacity communication solutions Satellite phones from Iridium, Thuraya and Inmarsat are available along with BGAN and VSAT solutions. Where high capacity over medium ranges is called for, mobile troposcatter solutions are at hand. A partner to be trusted 4 Danimex has years of experience working in the developing part of the world, where people trust us to deliver communication solutions tailored to local needs, funding and infrastructure. We are committed to building good and lasting partnerships with our customers. Good ethics, cultural insight and skilled employees are the tools of our trade. Resources • Customer service – educated, forthcoming and responsive • Large stock – rapid deliveries worldwide • Dedicated emergency stock equipment reserved for LTA holders for instant deployment • Full cycle solutions are conceived, designed, built, implemented and serviced worldwide • Skilled technicians – manufacturer-approved, combine theory and experience • On-site support, delivered by field engineers via local offices under the label DanimexSupport™ • Technical training in the field or at one of our offices Your partner in times of need Danimex responds quickly and effectively when sudden demands develop as disasters erupt. Both temporary setups and permanent solutions are handled. There is a firm focus on instant priorities. Hot fixes are presented instantly, but a strategic decision involving durability, serviceability and ease of continued operation is always made in the process. Ready for action Danimex has the capability to make a difference and is a dynamic and flexible partner trusted by our customers worldwide. We work with empathy and passion, and know our business to the core. Our organisation has a flat structure, allowing skilled personnel to take action in places and situations, where speed and decisiveness can be a life saving factor. A long-time humanitarian partner Danimex holds Frame Agreements regarding delivery of communications equipment with four major UN organizations and has price agreements with the largest NGOs. Memberships Danimex Communication is a member of The UN Global Compact, and the IASC Sub-Working Group on Emergency Telecommunications (WGET). Furthermore, Danimex has signed a MoA with the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) with the aim of creating a partnership agreement from which all UN organisations, can benefit. 5 UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Launched in July 2000, the UN Global Compact is a both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. The 10 Principles Human Rights ___________________________________________________________ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 6 ___________________________________________________________ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment ___________________________________________________________ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmen tal challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption ____________________________________ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. About “Communication on Progress” Since Danimex Communcation A/S joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 we have carried out many approaches and initiatives to enforce the commitment towards the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Our annual COP demonstrates our commitment to the UN Global Compact and it’s principles, as well as reflects our transparency and openness towards our stakeholders regarding our activities within the ten principles. Core Values of Danimex Communication Danimex received its ISO 9001 certification in 2012. The core, ethical values are stated within the ISO documentation. These values are appreciated by all staff within our company, and we demand they are practiced by our offices and dealers worldwide. We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Customers We are committed to being a good partner, focused on delivering the expertise 7 and solutions that support our promise of enabling people to communicate without limits, and strive to build collaborative, trusting relationships with institutions and customers. Communication and Learning There are two great equalizers in Danimex: Communication and learning. Our employees have the knowledge and skills critical to achieving our goals and providing customer solutions. We are committed to constant learning and communicating new ideas about communication for the benefit of customers. Diversity We work around the world and often in underdeveloped countries where people trust us to deliver sound communications solutions. One of our most important values is respecting the diversity of cultures in which we work and the way in which they enrich our lives professionally and personally. Accountability We are accountable as individuals and as a company for our work and our actions. We will be transparent, develop clear, measurable objectives and be responsible for the results we set out to achieve. Growth Through constant innovation and by delivering the best customer support in the markets we serve, Danimex will meet its goals for growth and competitive advantage. Code of Conduct for Danimex Communication Equal rights of women and men It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence Danimex Communication values the every day influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Child labour Danimex Communication do not use, nor approve of the use of child labour. Environment Danimex Communication is committed to work in a way that does not harm the environment. International laws Danimex Communication is committed to fulfill our obligations to local as well as international laws, regardless where we operate. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. 8 Freedom of association and protection of the right to organise Danimex Communication is committed to respect the individual right of labour protection. Occupational health and safety Danimex Communication is committed to avoid risks on occupational health and safety. Working against forced labour Danimex Communication will work against forced labour and slavery of all kinds. Human rights Danimex Communication is committed to work in accordance with the UN Human Rights Declaration. Labour/Human rights Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation With offices in the Middle East, Africa, USA and Europe, Danimex is working in a multicultural environment. For us the competences required for the specific positions matter more than for example nationality and sex. This is reflected in the first two rules in our Code of Conduct which are also part of this report. Equal rights of women and men: It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence: Danimex Communication values the everyday influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Danimex is thus committed to work for elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. This commitment applies to hiring, employment opportunities and promotion decisions. 9 Policies, programmes and management systems to support our commitment Danimex’ company policy in regards to non-discrimination is clearly stated in our code of conduct. All managers are instructed to focus on the applicants’ competences during job interviews, and not the applicants’ race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. All employees have minimum one yearly formal meeting with their managers. At this meeting notes are taken on performance and competences. All managers are instructed to base all promotion decisions on the stated outcome of these formal meetings and not on the employees’ race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. If a case of discrimination is identified, complaints will be handled by the top management. Furthermore, Danimex complies with the laws and regulations in the country of the local office. The latest approach towards our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact is the implementation of the Code of Conduct and the Danimex core values into the ISO 9001 certification, thus imprinting the principles throughout the whole value chain. Inspired by our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the implementation of the Code of Conduct and the Danimex core values were written into our ISO 9001 certification. This has been confirmed in further audits performed by both internal and external inspectors in 2013 and 2014, thus imprinting the principles throughout the whole value chain. Actions implemented in the last year and planned for the next year Until now we have implemented the following in regards to principle 6: • Policies implemented into ISO 9001 certification (as stated in our code of conduct). • Instructed our managers to follow the policy • Yearly formal meetings between employees and their managers in our offices in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at board meetings. For 2014/2015 we continue our work in: • Continued instruction of our leadership team to follow the policy • Identify and support organizations in the area where our offices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. It is our goal to develop and implement firm politics and procedures to be used as guidance for employees, who discover discrimination among business partrners and resellers. 10 • Continued evaluation by the board of directors at board meetings. Performance indicators 2011-2014 Performance indicators 2011 2012 2013 2014 goal 1 Number of incidents of discriminazero zero zero zero tion 2 Continued instruction of operationyes yes yes yes al management to secure implementation 3 Implementation of yearly formal yes yes yes yes meetings between employees and their managers with focus on performance and competences at the subsidiaries in Europe, Africa and the Middle East 4 Identify and support organisanone none South South tions in the area where our ofAfrica Africa fices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. As stated in Danimex Code of Conduct rule no. 6, Danimex works against fraud and corruption: Danimex complies with all applicable laws and regulations all the places we do business. Furthermore, Danimex complies with the anti-corruption treaties and laws of the countries in which we do business. Corruption is unfortunately more common in some of the areas, where Danimex is working, and thus it is consequently even more important for us to have focus on anti-corruption. Danimex is thus committed to work for elimination corruption in all its forms. 11 Policies, programmes and management systems to support our commitment: Danimex’ company policy in regards to corruption is clearly stated in our code of conduct. Work in Progress All employees in the head office in Denmark have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. This clause has been added to all employment contracts, including those for our local offices. Starting in the year 2010, all employees in Danimex subsidiaries worldwide have signed an anti-corruption clause. From January 2011 and forward all Danimex certified dealers have had to sign an anti-bribery pledge in order to become a certified Danimex channel partner. Each certification is valid for a year, where after the dealer has to renew the anti-bribery pledge. Performance indicators The table below is a summary of our activities and steps in regards to principle 6, which deals with the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Performance indicators Achieved Achieved Achieved Goal in 2011 in 2012 2013 for 2013 1 Number of incidents relating to corruption. zero zero zero zero 2 All employees at the Danish HQ have yes yes yes yes signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. 3 All employees at Danimex’ offices have yes yes yes yes signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. 4 Number of Danimex dealers who have 34 36 45 49 signed the anti-bribery pledge. 12 Actions implemented Until now Danimex have implemented the following: • Policies, as stated in our code of conduct. • All employees at the Danimex offices worldwide have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • All new employees of Danimex have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at the annual board meeting. • All Danimex certified dealers have signed an anti-bribery pledge which has to be renewed once a year. • New Danimex certified dealers must sign an anti-bribery pledge before the co-operation is started. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the work against corruption. • Co-operate with our suppliers on their work against corruption. • All reseller contracts have been updated to include an anti bribery pledge. General actions monitored continuously: • Policies as stated in our code of conduct. • All new employees at the Danimex offices worldwide have to sign an anticorruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at the annual board meeting. • Increase the number of dealers who sign the anti-bribery pledge. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the work against corruption. • Co-operate with our suppliers on their work against corruption. 13 Danimex employee after a long day of installing communication networks in Africa Overview: Specific actions being implemented Implementation of Responsible Sourcing Careful selection of our suppliers is one of the best ways to ensure continuity and long-term efficiency of the global supply chain as well as enduring brand support. When choosing our suppliers, in addition to making a final determination on cost, we need to evaluate a range of supply chain issues: product quality and safety, continuity of supply and speed of delivery, and intellectual property protection. Criteria such as working conditions, environmental practices, safety standards, and human rights policies are now also being factored into the selection process. Currently, Danimex is working on preparing a Key Supplier Code of Conduct incorporating the major principles of the United Nations Global Compact: Human Rights and Labor Environment Anti-Corruption 1. Forced labour 15. Material toxicity 23. Conflict of interest and chemicals 2. Child labour 24. Gifts, meals and 16. Raw material use entertainment 3. Working hours 17. Recyclability and 25. Bribery and kickbacks 4. Wages and benefits end of life of products 26. Accounting and 14 5. Humane treatment business records 18. Greenhouse gas 6. Nondiscrimination emissions 27. Protecting information 7. Freedom of association 19. Energy use 28. Reporting misconduct and collective bargaining 20. Water use and 8. Occupational safety waste water treatment 9. Emergency preparedness 21. Air pollution 10. Occupational injury and illness 22. Biodiversity 11. Fire safety 12. Industrial hygiene 13. Physically demanding work 14. Machine safeguarding Environment Status for 2013/2014 Altough a formal code of conduct for suppliers is still in the making, the spirit of the above prinnciples is present in the way we deal with suppliers. Our practice is to ask a new supplier for their formal code of conduct. If they have one, it is scrutinized. If not, the supplier will be asked to honor the Danimex code of conduct. Motorola Solutions, our primary supplier, have found ways, via their Solutions for Hope platform, to ensure that minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo are “conflict free”, meaning not in any way linked to labor or areas controlled by armed groups suspected of human rights violations. Global Compact Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. In the course of 2013, Danimex has been hiring 15% more employees and has started in-house production. Hence an increase in power coonsumption may be expected. It is our goal to maintain status quo, despite new activities. Power consumption Work concluded up to 2014 1) Installed timers on most electrical equipment like copying machines, printers, coffee-makers, the PCs, screens and printers of the warehouse. 2) Installed lamp sensors in the warehouse at workshop: by this, one can omit switching on all lights in the warehouse when entering or exiting the workshop which is connected to the warehouse. 3) Installation of a light switch in the warehouse for turning on/off the last row of lights, which are not necessary under normal conditions. 4) Outdoor lighting: the operation time of the outdoor lighting was reduced 15 by three hours and a light sensor was installed. 5) New printers installed, replacing older ones with larger power consumption. New initiatives for 2014/2015 Consumption is pretty much trimmed and largely relies on weather conditions. However, a change of attitude among employees to avoid unnecessary use of artificial light in the daytime is being induced. Performance kWh 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 indicator Power Goal 76,028 71,000 71,000 consumption Achieved 93,337 87,061 80,029 71,413 75,319 per day 256 239 219 196 206 Annual power consumption kWh Recycling Concluded efforts and ongoing issues 1. The Danimex warehouse recycles and re-uses almost all packaging received from suppliers. Additional packaging materials are environmentally friendly and made of recycled materials. 3. We use and purchase only ECO-labeled printing paper (http://www.eco-label.com/default.htm). For the next years we have planned to reduce the amount of prints and copies, thus reducing the amount of paper used. A corresponding KPI is now established below. 4. We only use ecological cleaning agents (http://www.cleancare.dk/Miljoe/Svane-produkter.aspx) Performance Sheets 2011 2012 2013 2014 indicator of paper Consumption of white Goal 190,000 160,000 125,000 paper, A4 Achieved 200,000 172,000 130,000 Consumption of letterhead Goal 19,000 19,000 19,000 paper, A4 Achieved 20,000 21,700 20,000 16 Waste Management In Denmark we have a close interplay between EU regulation and national regulations on waste. EU regulations lay down overall frameworks and principles, whereas the Danish Parliament decides on organization and legislation in the area of waste. In contrast to many other countries – we have chosen to manage industrial and commercial waste in a comprehensive waste management system, covering both packaging waste and hazardous waste. The principle of source separation at Danimex is a key element of the Danish model. For some types of waste, e.g. paper, cardboard, glass, metal, wood, etc. we have collection systems with source separation. This method enjoys widespread acceptance and is used extensively, also by our employees. Concluded improvements in 2013 There has been no further initiatives, but our carefully trimmed routines have become everyday practice in a consistent and natural fashion, involving the entire workforce. This in itself is a major achievement. Danimex waste management routines Cardboard Used as packaging material for new shipments. 17 Paper To be recycled (see new approach below) Confidential papers To be destroyed and removed according to regulation Plastic foil To be recycled Iron and Metal To be recycled Glass To be recycled Wood Mainly for pallets – used for new shipments IT equipment To be recycled on local recycling center Bulbs, batteries To be recycled on local recycling center Organic waste Collected for municipal waste treatment New initiatives for 2014/2015 Danimex aims to establish procedures and ressources for environmentally safe disposal of scrapped radio products locally in Africa. There will be focus on safe handling, avoidance of hazardous waste and bi-products, transparent procedures and recycling of materials extracted from the scrapped products. “The World’s Best News” Campaign formed by the UN, Danida and more than 80 Danish aid organisations. Danimex Communication is a partner Since 2009, Danimex has supported “The World’s Best News” campaign. The goal of this campaign is to boost awarenes of the fact, that aid programmes and support of projects in the developing countries matters. With the right incentives, poverty can be reduced considerably. The World Bank predicts that two out of three developing countries will meet the UN’s ambitious Millenium Development Goals. Poverty has already been cut by half and over the years there has been series of other important improvements. Governments all around the world as well as NGOs and many companies actively support the cause and thanks to the joint efforts, real progress is being made. Many challenges still remain – and many people are still in need. But if we want to, we are in fact able to end extreme poverty within a couple of decades. Promoting these facts and promoting awareness about the opportunities, which exist, is what the project “The World’s Best News” is all about. 18 Emerging middle class The African Development Bank says that one of every three Africans can now be considered middle class as defined by having up to 20 dollars a day to spend. The development isn’t just true for Africa. Extreme poverty is reduced all over the world. For the first time since the beginning of statistics about poverty trends, both the total number of people who live in extreme poverty and the proportion of poor have fallen. HALF OF THE WORLD’S The conclusion of DaniPOOR HAS DISAPPEARED mex is, that there is Since 1990, 700 million people have been lifted out of poverty. This is an important progress and shows that the fight against poverty is working. In 2000, the world’s countries promised each other that they progress, yet still a long would halve the proportion of extremely poor people. Today, that goal has been reached, mainly thanks to improved access to education, health care, new technology, and increased trade. way to go. But no one should live in poverty, so the fight goes on. We can end poverty Supporting local Read more at facebook.com/verdensbedstenyheder * Extreme poverty is defined by UN and The World Bank as living on less than $1.25 a day. The number of poor has been measured and estimated since 1990 and has continuously been adjusted for errors and insignificance. initiatives and doing DANIDA, UN and the Danish development organisations: ADRA Denmark, AC Børnehjælp, Agricultural Development Denmark Asia (ADDA), Aibidji, AIDS-Fondet, Aktion Børnehjælp, Art of Living, Association Kologh Naba, Axis, BØRNEfonden, Børn uden grænser, Cafe Retro, CARE, Caritas, Center for Kultur og Udvikling, CICED Community for International Cooperation in Education and Development, CISU Civilsamfund i Udvikling, Concord Denmark, Cross Cultures Project Association (CCPA), Crossing Borders, Cykler til Senegal, DanChurchAid, Danmarks Lærerforening, Danmission, Danish Refugee Council, Dansk Folkehjælp, Dansk Indisk Børnehjælp, Dansk Missionsråds Udviklingsafdeling (DMR-U), Danske Handicap-organisationer (DH), Denmark Lesotho Network, DIB, Disuzu Kwekwe, Dooni-Dooni Danmark, DUF (Danish Youth Council), East Afrika Development Organization (EDO), Fair Trade Danmark, FIC Forum for International Cooperation, FN business in the developing countries does ahave Forbundet, Folkehøjskolernes Forening i Danmark, Fonden til Fremme af blivende Økologisk Balance, Foreningen Den Tredje Verden, Foreningen Hammershus Fairtrade Concert, Frivilligcenter Tønder, Gambia Media Support (GAMES), Ghana Venskabsgrupperne, Hjerteforeningen, IBIS, Ingeniører Uden Grænser, InnoAid, International Aid Services (IAS), International Hjælpe og Udv.gruppe i Syd Somalia, IWGIA, Karagwes Venner, Kvindernes U-landsudvalg (KULU), Landsforeningen Levende Hav og fiskerinetværket, Livets Lys, Maternity Worldwide, MS-Action Aid Denmark, Mission Afrika, Momentum Trust, Morsø U-Landsforening, NGO Fontana, Niels Brock, Operation Dagsværk, Oplysningscenter om den 3. verden (O3V), Plan Danmark, PUGAD, Radio Hormuud, Red Barnet Ungdom, Remedy Foundation Architecture, Røde Kors, Save the Children Denmark, Seniorer uden Grænser, Sex & Samfund, SOS Børnebyerne, Stairway Denmark, Støtteforeningen til projekt ’Nenkashe Education Centre’, Terre Des Hommes Denmark, Tukae Denmark, UFF (Ulandshjælp fra folk til folk), U-landsforeningen Svalerne, UNDP Nordic Office, UNFPA Nordic Office, Ungdommens Røde Kors, UNICEF Denmark, Vedvarende Energi, Verdens BørnInternational Børnehjælp, Verdens Skove, WFP Nordic Office, WWF Verdensnaturfonde and a large number of engaged Danish companies. a positive effect. Danimex is prepared and ready to serve when crisis strikes Facts This report was published on June 14th, 2014 by Danimex Communication A/S Elholm 4 DK-6400 Sonderborg Denmark www.danimex.com Contact: Jytte Kaufmann Thomsen, CEO Phone: +45 73 42 56 00 Editor: Tina Lund, UN Partnership Manager UN Global Compact membership date: 18 July 2008 Number of employees: 60 Sector: Telecommunication Distribution: www.danimex.com, UN Global Compact, Danimex board of directors, financial partners, Danimex offices ao.
