Contents Pages Asia Royal Hospital’s United Nations Global Compact Statement Of Continued Support By Director 3 Introduction 4~5 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 6 ~ 12 Conclusion 13 Activities Photos ASIA ROYAL HOSPITAL’S UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) has been performing the CSR Activities since our establishment and in 2013 we came out to acknowledge about the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have been actively sustaining & contributing to the country’s Education sector, Health sector, religious affairs and other poverty alleviation sectors. After getting as the registered participants in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed ourselves to develop into responsible organization for our CSR performance by comprising the ten principles of the Global Compact into our business practices. We have integrated these principles into our core values and will try to be a role model in the industry. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 2 of 13 Prepared by HR Dept: Page 3 of 13 Introduction Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) was established in the year 2000. At present ARH has been specializing in Providing Reliable and Safe Health Care Services. ARH is 11 stories twins building. Asia Royal Health Care Services are now well accepted by Patients in Yangon as well as referral patients throughout Myanmar including corporate businesses. We have more than (14) years of experience in health care industry. The ISO 9001 approval assures you the proven and standardized quality in each of our services. In the future, we plan to add the most competitive price to that at quality care by setting up additional facilities to serve our customers. With reliable quality, we are always trying to achieve our customers' trust and confidence. Our scope are “Provision of General Health Care Services”. Our Hospital composed of seven departments, such as Medical Department, Health Service Development Department, Sale & Procurement Department, Engineering Department, Admin Department, Finance Department and Human Resource Department. There are round about 1000 employees in our hospital. Medical Staffs are 60% and NonMedical staffs are 40%. Vision To become the leading private hospital in Myanmar by providing international standard health care system with trustworthy service. Mission Through it’s expertise of healthcare providers, management and supporting staff, Asia Royal will work to promote better health care. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 4 of 13 By utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipments and standard operation procedures with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control program, Asia Royal assures its health care services to be effective and reliable. Quality Policy The Quality Policy of ARH is published in this Quality Manual. 1. Our team is ready to provide medical solutions aiming at utmost quality healthcare service and operational outcomes for our patients' needs. 2. We keep our environment clean and safe not only for the patients but also for our healthcare providers. 3. We attract qualified medical professionals and develop centre of excellence in all specialties as well as maintaining, promoting and continuing professional development of medical education. 4. We comply with all legal requirements (The law relating to private healthcare services) and strive for continual improvement of healthcare system and facilities. 5. We aspire to lead among private hospitals in Myanmar in value-based integrated healthcare (ethical value, professional value and human value) through continual improvement of quality management system. Our company’s quality policy is communicated to all employees and continually reviewed for suitability. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 5 of 13 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights principles Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principles Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental Principles Principle 7 :Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 6 of 13 Human Rights principles Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy and Goals Our mission is to composite through it’s expertise of healthcare providers, management and supporting staff. ARH will work to promote better health care. Thus, Asia Royal is highlighting to respect the fundamental Human Rights. Our main aspects of ARH is to keep up community be inspired by utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipments and standard operation procedures with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control program, ARH assures its health care services to be effective and reliable to our human being. Implementation To implement Human Rights Policies, ARH policy prohibits discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination, or retirement when such discrimination is based on race, national origin, religion, age, gender, marital status, sexual orientation. All candidates seeking to be hired are now required to pass through interview which ensures objectivity, fairness and equal chances are given to all in our hiring process. But, we can’t hire the employees who are under 18 years. ARH is complying with according to the labour law. We issued Employee Hand book in which including our employees are permitted to fair and equitable chance such as leave rule, gazette holiday, employee’s rule and regulation policies, penalties. ARH has been actively sustaining & contributing to the country’s education sector, health sector, religious affairs and other poverty alleviation sectors. At the Education Prepared by HR Dept: Page 7 of 13 section, we have contributed education sector which is in the out of the way region remote areas. Besides, we have contributed to the cancer foundation, blood donor group and some of the patients who cannot afford to pay for the treatment. Next, ARH gives medical benefit to all of employees and their immediate family. Moreover, it is taken by annual medical check-up and vaccinations are provided to for all employees. ARH always contributed school uniforms, stationeries, and meal to the monastery education. Moreover, we attend the old and poor people to get free medical counseling and medicine every month as required. Also as one of the humanatian activities ARH has performed yearly medical check-ups to old medical doctors organized by support group for elderly doctors of Myanmar Medical Association, free of charges. Measurement of Outcome We also make sure that our stakeholders are fully be in touch with UN Human Rights principles, policies and guidelines. Our senior management is continuously monitoring on these matters and will carry out periodic review of results. Labour Principles Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour and Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 8 of 13 Policy and Goals Our employee handbook mention that in clear terms by our policies concerning employee rights, compensation and responsibilities, rules and regulation practicing in our hospital. We are determined to improve and update our employee handbook as required in future and align them into Global Compact. ARH supports productive work environment by alleviating the cultural and ethnic diversity of its workforce and is committed to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified employees and applicants. ARH does not discriminate based on race, religion, age, marital status, disability, sex to those personnel in recruiting, hiring, training, promotion and discipline. Implementation All employees’ social welfares are well taken care of by our human resource department. Furthermore, it organized not only in house training but also external training for our employees to raise their awareness of management concept and to improve of capacity building. The training plans are established after collaboration of departmental requirements and customer feedback. Trainings to be conducted is planned on periodic basis and Training Plan is wellprepared. The effectiveness of the training provided is also evaluated and recorded and used for further developments. Evaluation of staff performance is carried out against the established performance appraisal criteria by Human Resources Department in collaboration with respected department yearly. Training to be conducted is planned on periodic basis and Training Plan is prepared. The effectiveness of the training provided is also evaluated and recorded on the training forms. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 9 of 13 Management Review meetings are being held by management once a month. In this meetings, all of management level staff are discussed the current situations, like clinical problems, management problems and staff problems. Also governance and management participated in discussing to get solutions and future trends. We regarded ISO 9001/2008 (QMS) as recognition of our company outstanding performance based on the standard procedures. These objectives include those needed to meet the requirements of interested parties regarding the service provided by the organization. Measurement of outcomes It is noted that our organization development a decrease work-related complaints. One of our main objectives in employment policy is that we consistently select candidates who are above eighteen, skilled and qualified for each position and provide on-job training. Environmental Principles Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policies and Goal ARH is always considering and trying to reduce of undesirable environmental impact. We notified the environmental issues to ours employees, stakeholders and suppliers. We carried out this so that all people involved in our business will come to realize the importance of the environment to be clean and safe. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 10 of 13 Implementation In line with our environmental issues, ARH always prioritize the safety not only for the safety of our employee but also for the safety of the environment. Management always conducts safety training for all employees to be responsible for the environment and the communities. To provide risks, ARH has developed Risk Reducing Plan and prepared for the proper response whenever necessary. We intend to comply with all health and safety legislation. We recognize that accidents, unsafe and unhealthy working conditions can be a considerable drain on the financial resources and demonstrate a lack of efficient management. Our key health and safety objective is to maintain a robust safety management system that facilitates systematic management of health and safety risks and promotes a positive health and safety culture across the organization. Furthermore, ARH developed fire safety measures for sites comply within the Fire Safety Policy. Implementation and development of the Fire Safety Policy, Ensuring our premises are provided with adequate standards of physical protection from fire hazard and appropriate facilities installed to secure effective evacuation for all staff, patients and services users. As the environmental responsibility, we reduced electricity consumption within our capacity by proper use and check-up to all electrical installations. To reduce the environmental impact, ARH has installed proper waste management system which is vital and important of hospital system. We are now using the conveyed biological treatment system. To utilize the biological aerobic treatment system, waste conveyed step by step treatment process such as equalization tank and waste water transferring system, bar screen and grit chamber, aeration tank and aeration system, sedimentation tank and sludge recycling system, chlorination tank, sludge transferred system and effluent sump etc. Measurement of Outcome We are trying to keep up in the future by innovating new measures such as replacing the existing lights with energy saving LED-bulbs. Besides, ARH is in the process of finding and using better, yet energy-saving and to be less of expensive. We are Prepared by HR Dept: Page 11 of 13 always related to the environmental issues and we intend to be an environmentally friendly organization by continuously implementing our CSR activities. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Goals There is no corruption and bribery in our organization. Management puts very strict policies and procedures that do not allow any corruption and bribery regardless of any level of management positions. Asia Royal Code of Conduct and Ethics forbids staff, agents and representative from offering, promising or providing briberies directly or indirectly through third parties, in any form. Our institution policy does not allow corruption in any forms and has publicly stated its stand of zero-tolerance on corruption. Implementation ARH management has maintained a check and balance system over transactions carried out within each year. Measurement of Outcome In case of any corruption found in our organization, our management always take very careful investigation in detail and never hesitate to take serious action accordingly regardless of any level of stakeholders involvement. Proper administrative system also prevents corruption. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 12 of 13 Conclusion This report attempted to cover all of the principles, activities and outcomes, policies and goal and implementation strategy according to the guideline provided by UNGC. We are still in the process of development to become well – functioning private hospital. We always analyze our future plan to be compatible with National Health Policy and Private hospital Rules and Regulation in Myanmar. Now, we are preparing to draw strategic plan (2015~ 2020) as the future direction. It’s important that ARH learns from the experience of the previous activities particularly in respect of the lessons related to weakness and strength and challenges faced. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 13 of 13
