A European investment firm with a global industrially-driven approach T USTAINAB ILITY REPOR REVIEW & S 2013 ANNUAL TM Investindustrial is a group All trademarks, brand names of independently managed and logos (including any Table investment, holding and word, name, symbol, design, financial advisory companies. colors or combination thereof) reproduced in this report of Contents are protected by applicable national and international laws and should not be used or copied without the legitimate owners’ permission. COVER IMAGE: Avincis’ rescue operations in the Northern Sea This document has been prepared for information purposes only on “Portfolio Company”, “Team”, “Professionals”, “Partner”, “Principal”, I Strategic Commentary 4 the basis of a series of conditions. Neither the whole nor any of the “Senior Partner” and “Senior Principal” in this document have been used information in this report may be used for any other purpose without the only for practical ease of reading and do not intend to imply any specific II Who We Are 10 prior written consent of Investindustrial. While it has been prepared in reference to an entity or a legal definition of any activity of control by good faith, no representation is given as to the accuracy or achievability any company with respect to other companies. Terms such as “control”, III Case Studies 22 of any values applied herein, nor should any valuations be treated as “ownership” and their synonyms are also used for case of reference and Investindustrial’s estimate of the eventual investment outcome. The illustrative purposes only and may not imply, from a juridical perspective, IV Portfolio Developments 30 assumptions on which these values have been prepared are necessarily full or partial control of certain companies due to limitations by any subjective and have not been subject to third party verification. By your shareholders’ agreements, co-investment vetoes and other third party V Social Responsibility 46 receipt of this document, you acknowledge that you are aware of the rights, management stock option and any other incentive scheme. restrictions imposed by the laws of various countries on the purchase In addition, shares in portfolio companies are held by the applicable VI Summary Group Information 58 and sale of securities by any person who has received such information investment and/or holding company of the relevant fund and rights over and on the communication of this information to others. We are not in such shares are exercised by the board of directors of the investment the position to determine whether any of the information in this report and/or holding company in an independent manner. References to is insider information within the meaning of the laws of any country, as “Lugano” or “Switzerland”, “Barcelona” or “Spain”, “London” or “the such determination could be made only in the light of the circumstances UK”, “Luxembourg”, “Shanghai” or “China” and “New York” or “the USA” in which any disclosure was considered. Nothing in this report should when used in the context of Investindustrial’s activities (whether together be construed as advice or solicitation to buy or sell any securities. The with the words “team” or “office”) are intended to refer to the respective information and opinions in the report are given in good faith. However, independently managed advisory or investment companies we do not make any warranty as to their completeness or accuracy. as applicable. The Investindustrial website and any other company’s They are also subject to change without notice. References to names website, information and links contained therein are not part of this of portfolio companies are intended to be made, where the context document and should not be considered as incorporated by reference requires, to the applicable holding company/subsidiary of the relevant herein. For any queries on the information contained within this report, Fund. The terms “Group”, “Firm”, “Investindustrial”, “Our”, “We”, “Us”, the reader should contact Investindustrial. Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC COMMENTARY Investindustrial’s long-standing presence as a preferred mid“In 2013, Investindustrial prepared exits market company owner in Italy, Spain, and opportunistically across Europe is built around our philosophy of preparing and from five portfolio companies, resulting managing the investee companies for internal long-term growth. in distributions of more than €1 billion Our team of 60 professionals drives the implementation of to investors”. an industrially-driven agenda with a high degree of financial discipline, but increasingly our companies benefit from striking external strategic partnerships to acquire game-changing Investindustrial continued to operate at the forefront of its competitive advantage. target markets throughout 2013 and further strengthened its position as the leading private mid-market investor in Southern Europe and sector-driven across Europe. We continued our mission to act as a transformational owner for a few selected “Increasingly our companies benefit from quality companies by investing to unlock growth and strike striking external strategic partnerships long-term global partnerships. to acquire game-changing competitive advantage”. We completed the acquisition of 39% of the share capital with joint controlling rights of Aston Martin Holdings (UK) Limited. The investment in Aston Martin will support an iconic brand The partnerships that we seek to introduce are classified in executing the biggest R&D project in its 100-year history. into three main categories – industrial, brands and capital. Subsequently, Investindustrial supported Aston Martin in signing During 2013 we were active across all three categories a significant strategic partnership with Daimler. The agreement and some of the key transactions are highlighted will allow Daimler and Aston Martin to develop bespoke in the next pages. V8 engines, electronic and navigation systems for its next generation of models. “The investment in Aston Martin will support an iconic brand in executing the biggest R&D investment cycle in its 100-year history”. Investindustrial’s long-standing presence as a preferred mid-market Since the second half of 2013, favourable financial markets naturally meant more activity relating to exits of mature company owner in Italy, Spain, investments. In 2013, Investindustrial prepared exits from and opportunistically across five portfolio companies, resulting in distributions of more than €1 billion to investors. In addition, Investindustrial Europe is built around completed refinancings for four portfolio companies for a total our philosophy of setting up consideration of €1.2 billion. the investee companies for long-term success Andrea C. Bonomi, Founder of Investindustrial at the Aston Martin Headquarters in Gaydon (UK) 4 5 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Industrial partners Brand partners We were instrumental in agreeing two milestone industrial PortAventura, Europe’s second largest theme park and partnerships during the year. Aston Martin entered a strategic destination resort, reached a licensing agreement with Ferrari collaboration with Daimler, allowing them to jointly develop S.p.A., the iconic Italian sports car maker. PortAventura will bespoke V8 engines and electric/electronic architecture to establish Ferrari Land, a new park and hotel dedicated to support Aston Martin’s launch of a next generation of models. the theme of Ferrari and located within the PortAventura The partnership with Daimler was a fundamental component destination resort. The new branded site will be the sole Ferrari of Investindustrial’s business plan at entry as it is expected theme park in Europe and envisages a total investment of to create significant value and reduce execution risk for the more than €100 million. Expected to open during 2016/2017, business going forward. Furthermore, Daimler has agreed Ferrari Land will be built on a total surface area of 75,000 to make Aston Martin a commercial offer for a shared SUV square meters and it is expected to improve PortAventura’s platform, which could represent a transformational event position as a leading European destination resort. Together with for the company. the major entertainment group Cirque du Soleil performing at PortAventura during the 2014 season, Ferrari Land will Avincis, the world’s largest mission-critical aerial services significantly increase PortAventura’s brand awareness in the operator, struck a long-term partnership with UK engineering premium tourism segment word wide. support service leader Babcock International. The two companies initially started collaborating on bidding for new Capital partners contracts, which evolved into a proposed partial acquisition by Babcock of Avincis. Ultimately, all parties agreed that the best At the end of 2013 Investindustrial announced that it had way to crystallise the synergies of the two businesses was by entered into an agreement with private equity firm KKR Babcock taking full ownership of Avincis. In early 2014, the sale for the sale of a 49.9% shareholding of PortAventura. of Avincis was therefore completed, valuing the company at €2 KKR’s entry brought complimentary capital and expertise billion. Under Investindustrial’s ownership Avincis underwent to help the growth and to execute the next exciting and a major transformation and we believe that it will continue to transformational phase of the PortAventura development. thrive under the leadership of its new corporate owner. The partial sale of PortAventura was completed at a total enterprise value of approximately €900 million. 2013 Portfolio figures Sales (€m) Ebitda (€m) and Margin (%) Total Employees (nr.) In 2013, By Year Investindustrial’s 7,434 7,664 8,479 1,502 1,779 45,666 46,835 50,784 portfolio 1,236 30,166 32,526 showed a strong 4,379 4,835 performance 637 20,8% +10% +54% +3% +11% 589 13,5% +8% 13,2% +94% 16,6% +22% 19,6% +18% +8% +40% +3% +8% with a like-for-like Ebitda growth 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 of 11% Total investments generated aggregate sales of €8.5 billion In 2013, Investindustrial’s aggregate investments generated At the end of 2013 the workforce of portfolio companies increased in 2013 with an increase of 11% compared to the prior year. an Ebitda of approximately €1.8 billion, 18% higher than last year. by 8% to reach approximately 50,800 employees. During 2013, Investindustrial invested in one new company; Excluding this new acquisition, Ebitda growth was 11%. excluding this new transaction, portfolio sales grew by 2%. The recently renewed Costa Caribe Aquatic Park in PortAventura 6 7 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The intense focus Investindustrial places on long-term portfolio company health remains of paramount importance “The Investindustrial team has been to both the group’s value creation map and its position as a world class investor. Attractive financial investment returns strengthened by debt specialists to increase our for Investindustrial are easiest achieved by setting up our ability to source investments and assess relative investee companies for long-term future success after a period value across the entire mid-market”. of repositioning. Ducati for example, which was sold to the Volkswagen group in 2012, is now thriving at its new home where it is considered a highly-prized asset within an already For 2014, we continue to see strength in the financial markets eminent portfolio. in anticipation of a European recovery that is still a work in progress. Patience, industrial due diligence and local insight are key attributes to mantaining a disciplined investment approach amidst increased sector valuations and readily “Attractive financial investment returns available financing. The Investindustrial advisory teams and for Investindustrial are easiest achieved investment companies have been strengthened by debt by setting up investee companies specialists to increase our ability to source and assess relative for long-term future success”. value across the entire mid-market. We have a stronger and more experienced team than ever before in an industry where the relentless drive of talented professionals distinguish the During 2013 Investindustrial endeavored to identify outperformers. a suitable long-term path for Banca Popolare di Milano As such, we are confident that we will have many positive results (“BPM”) by reforming its corporate governance structure. and exciting developments to report on again in 2014. BPM is a cooperative bank listed on the Milan stock exchange, meaning that each shareholder is entitled to one vote irrespective of the number of shares held. Investindustrial 2013 Key events was the single largest shareholder of the bank for two years, having entered through an agreement to effectively become €1.2bn €1.0bn €1.2bn 20.8% the cornerstone investor in an €800 million capital increase in 2011 during a critical time for the bank. Investindustrial exited in early 2014, having been unable to convince the balance of shareholders about the benefits of converting into a joint-stock company. Investindustrial made a modest financial return and nevertheless left the bank with a significantly healthier €1.2 billion of equity Selective exits completed Refinancings A highly profitable balance sheet and operating performance relative to the for investments with €1.0 billion of proceeds portfolio pre-entry position. At the end of 2013 During 2013 Investindustrial During 2013, Investindustrial During 2013, Group sales Investindustrial had successfully sold 49.9% supported some of its increased by 11% while Ebitda On 29th November 2013 a police helicopter operated by Bond available approximately of PortAventura and portfolio companies grew by 18%, increasing Aviation Services, the UK operation of Avincis, suffered a tragic €1.2 billion of equity to at the beginning of 2014 (PortAventura, Avincis, SNAI, the margin to 21%. Growth accident during an emergency mission as it came down on the make further acquisitions. it exited Avincis, Banca and Cogetech) in significant occurred mostly outside roof of a public house in Glasgow, Scotland during a mission. The Group’s large capital Popolare di Milano and refinancing transactions Southern Europe. Ten people, including the helicopter’s crew of three, lost their availability is a strategic Svenson. The four exits for a total consideration lives in the accident. Bond Aviation Services has made every advantage in the current achived €1.0 billion of of €1.2 billion. possible effort to support the authorities since the accident market environment. distributions to investors. occurred. At Investindustrial, our thoughts go out to all the families affected by this very tragic accident. An Avincis’ helicopter during a rescue operation in Spain 8 9 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WHO WE ARE 1978 The Financial Times A leading European A history investment group with a consistent strategy Providing industrial expertise, operational focus 2012 The Financial Times and global platforms to accelerate value creation 2013 Recognitions and international expansion. of Investindustrial excellence Investindustrial is one of Europe’s leading independent investment groups which provides industrial solutions and capital to medium-size companies that are leaders in their fields. European House of the Year 2012 The Economist Investindustrial operates through independently managed (Real Deals) investment holding and advisory companies with strong sector and industrial expertise, operational focus and global Italian Firm of the Year platforms. Founded in 1990 out of an industrial conglomerate, (Private Equity Exchange) Investindustrial has a team of more than 60 professionals on three continents. Investindustrial’s aim is to create longItalian Firm of the Year term value by helping portfolio companies to accelerate (PEI) international expansion and improve operational efficiency. The general partners and investment managers manage the Spanish Firm of the Year funds in the interest of the limited partners and therefore in an autonomous and independent manner from the other group (PEI) companies. Investments and divestments are made (and shares Southern European Deal of the Year in portfolio companies are held) by the applicable investment or holding company of each fund. Decisions over investments (Ducati – Real Deals) and divestments, including the exercise of the voting rights over the shares of the portfolio companies, are made by the UK Italy Business Awards applicable investment or holding company board of directors (British Government in an autonomous and independent manner, consistent with and UK Trade & Investment) the applicable corporate governance rules and by-laws. It is the responsibility of the management of each portfolio company to operate the company on a day-to-day basis. www.investindustrial.com 35 Originated from Operating More than 60 Industrially a successful as a firm professionals on driven years of investments industrial group since 1990 three continents approach in leading brands and companies 10 11 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 An investment strategy refined from The Ducati Diavel was successfully launched at the end of 2010 to enter the high performance sport cruiser segment successes and experiences from previous partnerships such as... INVEST DRIVE IN QUALITY MARKET BUSINESSES LEADERSHIP Quality management team Create international leaders Focus on reinforcing through organic growth research and development and new acquisitions Optimisation Maximize profitability by and rationalisation leveraging synergies and of product mix developing restructuring or cost-cutting plans Improvement of working Capture international capital management growth opportunities Business line diversification ...is being applied to the 2013 portfolio of leading brands and companies CAPTURE CREATE GLOBAL TOMORROW’S OPPORTUNITIES LEADERS Capture international sales Integrate product growth opportunities that development, production are not easily accessible for and supply chain capabilities mid-market companies with international distribution Use the Group’s global capacity network to facilitate access Capture growth opportunities to new markets both geographical and product Relocate manufacturing Become an attractive to low-cost countries business opportunity for with growing domestic international players consumption 12 13 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Leading European footprint with a growing international presence 2013 Sales(1) (%) 2013 Sales Variance (%) 2013 Sales(1) Variance (%) By Region By Region since Inception By Region 9% Investindustrial has considerable international exposure and Rest of combines a global vision with local insight and capital to offer North the World America 11% Rest of Italy growth opportunities to its companies. Investindustrial’s 23% 5% 5% 10% the World portfolio companies have a truly global footprint, with 41% of 21% Rest of Rest 2012 2012 Italy Europe sales coming from outside Southern European markets. In 2013 of Europe Italy Spain the most attractive growth opportunities have stemmed from 20% 35% 10% outside of Europe and in particular from North America and North America Rest Rest of the World with a significant recovery from Spain. Spain 26% -2% of Europe Spain North Rest Since inception, non-European countries have contributed 24% 20% -3% America of the World to 43% of the growth of portfolio companies’ sales. (1) Sales weighted by shareholding of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2013 More than two thirds of the portfolio growth since inception (1) Sales weighted by shareholding of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2013 has come from markets outside of Southern Europe and 47% of this growth has been driven from non-European countries 1 4 2 3 5 6 1. From left: Luis Valencia (Development Director), Giovanni Modena at Investindustrial) during a visit to the Aston Martin dealer in Long 4. Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) 6. From left: Dante Razzano (Senior Principal at Investindustrial), (Operations Director), Arturo Mas Sarda (Chairman of the Board), Island (New York, USA) with Daniel Lamarre (President and CEO of Cirque du Soleil) Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Industrial Advisor Sergio Feder (President), Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Senior Principal 3. From left: Roberto Maestroni (Principal at Investindustrial), during a visit in Montreal (Canada) at Investindustrial), Piero Luigi Montani (CEO of BPM) at Investindustrial), Fernando Aldecoa (Managing Director) and Umberto Magnetti (Vice President at Investindustrial), Peter Hug 5. From left: Gabriele Del Torchio (CEO of Ducati) with Rupert Stadler and Davide Croff (Director) during an operational Gianfranco Bollini (Shows Director), at the opening of the new (General Manager of Aston Martin Zurich), Andrea C. Bonomi (CEO of Audi) and on the back Dante Razzano (Senior Principal at meeting in BPM water park Costa Caribe in PortAventura (Spain) (Senior Industrial Advisor at Investindustrial) and Carl Nauckhoff Investindustrial) during the signing for the sale of Ducati to Audi 2. From left: Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Industrial Advisor at (Principal at Investindustrial) during a visit to the Aston Martin Investindustrial), Simon Rodd (General Manager of Aston dealer in Zürich (Switzerland) Martin Long Island) and John C. Mowinckel (Special Principal 14 15 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Investindustrial is a global provider of employment Investindustrial’s portfolio companies employ Investindustrial investments have a direct presence approximately 50,800 employees, based mostly through manufacturing facilities or subsidiaries in Europe, across a wide range of sectors and in 20 countries. countries. Investindustrial considers the skills of its portfolio companies’ The companies in which we invest endeavour to maintain and SWEDEN employees as an asset to be developed and shared while improve training and further develop the know-how of their NORWAY respecting and safeguarding individuals. Furthermore, the Group employees. In 2013, the total workforce increased to 50,800 USA is committed to offering equal opportunities in employment and employees of which approximately 9,800 are outside of Europe. in career development avoiding every form of discrimination, in RUSSIA particular discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, Manufacturing and commercial activities are present across age, nationality, religion and personal beliefs. 20 countries and five continents. UK POLAND Total Investindustrial Companies Employees (%) FRANCE By Region By Sector Asia Oceania GERMANY 6.3% 2.0% Africa Industrial Manufacturing PORTUGAL 3.4% America 1.2% Consumer, 9.9% Retail and Leisure ITALY Rest of Europe Italy 43.9% 32.9% Services SPAIN 14.8% and Concessions 63.7% CHINA Spain 21.9% UAE ARGENTINA AUSTRALIA BRASIL MALAYSIA CHILE CHINA BRASIL FRANCE GERMANY ITALY MALAYSIA SOUTH AFRICA NORWAY PERU PERU POLAND ARGENTINA PORTUGAL RUSSIA AUSTRALIA SWEDEN SOUTH AFRICA SPAIN CHILE Avincis’ maintenance operations UAE in Alicante (Spain) UNITED KINGDOM USA 16 17 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 retain talented people with the highest ethical standards A leading investment and to create an attractive workplace for them to develop An organisation tailor-made team in Europe in is vital for Investindustrial. Investindustrial professionals have demonstrated major achievements in their professional for active ownership and academic past and typically remain with the firm for many years. Investindustrial professionals represent sixteen Investindustrial has one of the largest and nationalities, reflecting the importance we place on being a Investindustrial provides hands-on support A unique network of Industrial Advisors. the most experienced groups of investment transparent and dynamic organisation with global views and to its companies which is fully reflected in the capabilities. To help its portfolio companies achieve their full potential, professionals focused on Europe. team’s depth and wealth of expertise. Investindustrial can count on the valuable commitment of its Investindustrial operates through a series of investment funds, Investindustrial is part of BI-Invest group, which was founded The team’s experience combines strong local investment Industrial Advisors led by Andrea C. Bonomi. These seasoned holding companies and financial advisory firms, each managed by the Bonomi family. BI-Invest currently has around €4.4bn insight with a global perspective, and the firm’s broad and deep executives bring valuable industrial expertise in a wide range independently and established in the United Kingdom, Spain, of assets under management, which are invested in a variety resource base is designed to ensure the successful execution of sectors and are closely linked to the Group’s industrially-driven Switzerland, Luxembourg, the United States and China. of sectors operated independently and separately with of the industrially-driven approach. As active investors we work operational model. The Industrial Advisors concentrate their advice Talent management is a key strategic asset at Investindustrial different investment strategies. Some Group companies are closely with key management throughout the ownership phase. in maintaining best practice corporate governance, stress testing which has a team of more than 60 professionals combining local authorised and subject to the supervision of the Financial industrial plans and identifying global value creation opportunities. insight with a global perspective. Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom, the Commission Having the right people at the right place at the right time de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg and the is critical to building successful companies. To recruit and Federal Authority for Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) in Switzerland. During 2013, the group has been further strengthened by public investment experts as well as debt specialists to increase its ability to source and assess relative value across the entire mid-market. Investindustrial Employees (nr.) By Age Distribution By Years of Employment at Investindustrial Total Support Staff 9 28 Total 8 23 Administration and Accounting Women Investment Professionals Men 2 3 14 19 4 13 3 15 13 3 11 1 1 10 10 12 5 8 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 1 2 0-2 2-5 5-10 >10 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 By Education Programmes M.B.A./PHD High school and other education programs 6 offices 12 languages 23% 20% University degree 16 nationalities 57% 18 19 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Investindustrial recognised as An internationally recognised “European Buyout House of the Year” sustainable investment approach at Private Equity Awards 2013 Investindustrial awarded Investor of the Year at the UK-Italy business awards. At the beginning of 2014, Investindustrial received the prestigious Investor of the Year award at the seventh edition of the UK-Italy Business Awards, arranged by the British Government and the UK Trade & Investment to showcase Italian excellence and prominent collaboration between Italy and the United Kingdom. The ceremony was held in Milan at the Borsa Buyout House of the Year, Mediterranean Deal of the Year Italiana, part of the London Stock Exchange Group. INVESTINDUSTRIAL Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Industrial Advisor at Investindustrial) collected the award from Michael Fallon, (UK Minister of State for Business and Enterprise) in front of more than 100 guests, including the Italian Minister for Economic Development, the UK Ambassador to Italy, and the UK Consul General in Milan This firm’s stellar year saw it romp home in two categories. Investindustrial at the FT Future of Italy Summit INVESTINDUSTRIAL, THE WINNER OF BUYOUT family who founded Investindustrial in 1990, has In November 2013, Andrea C. Bonomi has been invited as investors to discuss the country’s political and economic House and Mediterranean Deal of the Year at regularly pointed out that at the same time as guest speaker at the event organized by the Financial Times outlook, its amplified role within the region and on the the 2013 Private Equity Awards, has always banks, corporates and governments are selling been a firm that likes to do things differently. assets at cut prices in Southern Europe, other entitled FT Future of Italy Summit: Charting the Way Ahead. global stage, and the risks, challenges and opportunities During the last 12 months the uniqueness of private equity firms are playing it safe and this southern European private equity house focusing on the steadier markets in Germany This strategic one day conference brought together top facing international business interests in Italy. has been particularly noticeable, as it has defied and Scandinavia. The upshot is that firms like level industry leaders, policy-makers and global corporate convention with its fearless investment approach. Investindustrial, which have held their nerve, As private equity rivals have abandoned Spain are buying assets at low valuations with little and Italy, spooked by sovereign debt crises, or no competition to inflate prices. rising unemployment and negative growth, The firm’s new investments in 2012 – Aston Investindustrial has continued to put money to Martin, PortAventura and Euskaltel – are all From Left: Rachel Sanderson (journalist Financial Times), Alessandro Profumo work in its heartland with confidence, investing in cases in point. The acquisition of 48 per cent (Chairman Monte dei Paschi di Siena), Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Industrial luxury motor vehicle group Aston Martin, theme of Euskaltel was equivalent to an enterprise value of Investindustrial also opened a new factory in Advisor at Investindustrial), Luigi De Vecchi (Chairman of Continental Europe park PortAventura and telecoms business Euskaltel. ¤857m, only half the value of the company’s ¤1.7bn Thailand to lower production costs and brokered for Corporate and Investment Banking, Citi) Selling a Southern European portfolio investments in infrastructure. The 50 per cent share a deal to assemble Ducati motorbikes in Brazil. company for a decent return has been nigh on of PortAventura was bought for a multiple of 6.5 The firm was equally adept at selling more impossible, yet Investindustrial has secured the times Ebitda. Other companies in the industry Ducatis in the emerging markets of China, exits of motorcycle manufacturer Ducati and fetch between eight and ten times. Aston Martin Vietnam, Thailand, India and Brazil. Sales in plastic waste container maker Contenur. also looks a bargain, with Investindustrial paying Asia (excluding Japan) climbed by 73 per cent What’s more, at a time when buyout firms in a multiple of 8.4 times Ebitda when luxury car between 2010 and 2011. Europe have laboured to raise new funds, some brands like Porsche and Ferrari have fetched The Ducati investment has been such a success giving up altogether, Investindustrial cantered to multiples running into double digits. When that Harvard Business School, London Business a final close of ¤1.25bn for its fifth fund in just six Investindustrial buys, it usually buys well. School and the EVCA all used it for a case study months. Such was the success of the fundraising But what has impressed the firm’s LPs even to demonstrate the private equity industry’s that all of Investindustrial’s LPs from North America, more than its ability to invest at reasonable prices ability to generate long-term, sustainable value. where euro-scepticism has been at its most is what it is able to do with those investments after This thoroughness and attention to detail intense, re-upped with the same or larger amount. a deal has closed. “These guys are very handscarries over to Investindustrial’s investor relations on and very commercially focused. They have function, which LPs describe as “coherent” and Standing out outstanding industrial networks and when they “transparent”. What its investors like even more So how has Investindustrial managed to buy a company they have a very clear operational are the returns. This year alone the firm’s backers overcome the bleak economic conditions in strategy to improve the business,” says a private received distributions of ¤500m, bringing total Spain and Italy, and succeed where other private equity adviser who has worked with the firm. distributions since it was launched to ¤2.1bn. equity firms have failed or fled? During the last three years, Investindustrial’s Perhaps the main reason is that it simply isn’t Operations assets under management have recorded a like other private equity firms. “Investindustrial’s All GPs like to talk about their “operational compound annual growth rate of 28 per cent. heritage is in industrial ownership. The way it capabilities”, but Investindustrial genuinely lives Lifetime returns are running at 2.5 times money. identifies investments and works with portfolio and breathes operations. The leverage across No wonder LPs are impressed. companies is different from other financial owners. its portfolio is a meagre two times Ebitda and “Strong results, best-practice private equity It does some very interesting deals that would be operational transformation, rather than capital standards and a clear strategy enabled the firm difficult for any other firm to execute,” says Mounir structure, is always the key driver of returns. to successfully raise their next-generation fund Guen, the founder of placement agent MVision. Investindustrial’s investment in motorcycle in 2012 with strong backing from existing and Sticking to Southern Europe is the first way group Ducati, sold to Audi for 2.3 times money new investors,” says James Millar, the managing that the firm has set itself apart from others, and an IRR of 28 per cent, is a good example of its director of the Princeton University Investment and although continuing to invest in Italy and industrial and operational nous. During its hold Company. “Investindustrial is now in a dominant Spain may partly be down to the firm’s loyalty period Investindustrial oversaw the development position in its core markets.” to its home markets, it is also a savvy contrarian and release of 17 new motorbike models, which Investindustrial, the buyout firm that has investment strategy. helped to boost bike sales by 13 per cent and always enjoyed being different, is standing Andrea Bonomi, a member of the Bonomi earn a 25 per cent increase in market share. out from the crowd for all the right reasons. 24 REALDEALS 27 June 2013 20 21 21 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Who we are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CASE STUDY: Avincis “The co-operation with Investindustrial has A global helicopter allowed Avincis to implement a successful long-term value creation strategy mainly services provider focused on international build-ups. Today, Avincis is a global leader in emergency helicopter services and represents a unique platform from which to further capture global growth and consolidation opportunities in the sector. Avincis is a leader as a result of its focus on operational safety standards and its strong commitment to invest in innovation, development and fleet renewal”. Avincis 2013 Ebitda Margin Developments since entry: 25.2% James Drummond, CEO Avincis Sales growth 355% Ebitda growth 463% Ebitda Margin growth 24 % Since Investindustrial’s entry in late 2005, Avincis a large and modern fleet; has been transformed from a domestic player to the strong bargaining power with suppliers; world’s largest emergency aerial services company. long-term public contracts with fixed revenues giving strong visibility of earnings; Avincis (www.avincisgroup.com) is the world’s largest provider an extensive network of operating bases; of emergency and mission critical aerial services contracted highly trained personnel with its own flight simulators; on a long-term basis with public administrations. The Company proprietary maintenance facilities operating to the highest has over 40 years of experience with operations in Spain, Italy, standards of servicing; France, the UK, Portugal, Chile, Peru, Ireland, Norway, Australia, other economies of scale such as insurance, procurement Denmark, Finland and Sweden and is the most internationally and leading safety practices. diversified operator in its sector. Avincis provides public clients with services including Avincis operates the third largest helicopter fleet in the world emergency medical services, fire-fighting, sea and mountain with approximately 350 aircraft as of the end of 2013, of which rescue, civil protection customs surveillance and services to Oil 139 are owned by the company. Headquartered in London, UK, and Gas platforms. The company’s market-leading position and the company employs approximately 2,750 pilots, engineers and concession-based revenue profile has enabled Avincis to achieve Avincis’ rescue operations other staff. With its current size and diversification, Avincis has consistent growth and execute its global acquisition strategy in in the Mediterranean sea a clear competitive advantage over its local peers, due to: recent years. 22 23 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Achieving internationalisation and business diversification Since Investindustrial’s entry in 2005, while strengthening profitability an ambitious build-up plan has been executed. Under Investindustrial’s ownership Avincis underwent a was not present, providing access to further future growth. major transformation: nine add-on acquisitions have been In addition, Avincis increased its presence in the strategically Who we are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 completed allowing the company to strengthen its presence attractive segment of the Oil & Gas helicopter services market in Italy, France, the UK, Portugal, Chile, Peru, Ireland, Norway, that strongly resembles Avincis’ core business lines, given the AVINCIS’ GEOGRAPHICAL Australia, Denmark, Finland and Sweden. In the first quarter mission-critical nature of helicopter transportation in the North PRESENCE AS of 2014 Avincis continued its internationalization strategy by Sea, the high component of search & rescue operations, and OF DECEMBER 31, 2012 reaching an agreement for the acquisition of Scandinavian the structure of Bond’s contracts with major Oil & Gas blue-chip AirAmbulance the leading provider of air ambulance services in operators (long-term, fixed charged revenues). Avincis continues Global Headquarter the Nordic region. During 2013 Avincis continued the integration to be well positioned for future growth, both organically and Local Country of Bond Aviation Group acquired in 2012, a major independent through additional bolt-on acquisitions. In early 2014, Avincis Headquarter UK helicopter operator, which provides offshore (Oil & Gas) was sold to Babcock International, the UK engineering support Base transportation and mission critical emergency helicopter service leader, after the two companies initially started Aeronautical services under long-term contracts. This acquisition allowed collaborating on bidding for new contracts. The sale of Avincis Maintenance Centre Avincis to enter the heavy fleet segment, in which the company was completed valuing the company at €2 billion. Aeromaritime, UK Bond Aviation, UK Cegisa, Spain Acquired in 2008 Acquired in 2011 Acquired in 2007 Maintenance expertise and entry Consolidation of the Oil and Gas an Fixed-wing aircraft acquisition that into the British market. Mission Critical Emergency Services consolidated Spanish firefighting Ebitda (€m) and Margin (%) leadership. leadership in UK. By Year 137.5 142.1 143.0 Proteus, France Acquired in 2008 90.6 Europe Turned Avincis into number 2 in 79.0 France. 71.3 43.0 26,6% 26,4% 34.7 26,1% 25.4 25,3% 25,2% 20,4% 27,1% 27,1% 25,8% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Elilario, Italy Helitalia, Italy Sales (%) Acquired in 2008 Acquired in 2009 Peru By Country By Category Turned Avincis into number 1 in Consolidation of EMS leadership emergency helicopter services in Italy. in Italy. 8% 69% 31% 46% Rest of the World Life and Rescue 92% Spain Safety and Environment Energy Support Chile 64% 30% Canary Islands Australian Helicopters Acquired in 2010 24% 31% Entry into the 5% Australian market with a leading EMS/ SAR operator Avincis has an extensive Pan-European operating network and a strategic presence Australia 2005 2013 2005 2013 in Latin America and Australia 24 25 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CASE STUDY: PortAventura “After the successful experience with the A European leader largest Italian theme park Gardaland, it is a great pleasure for me to continue working in the leisure and with Investindustrial in PortAventura. After four years of cooperation with entertainment Investindustrial, PortAventura has been transformed from a theme park into industry Europe’s third largest integrated destination resort. A strong repositioning plan has been implemented based on strengthening the product offering, implementing a more accurate commercial strategy and optimising the cost base. The company is today on the right path to meet its long term value creation plan”. Sergio Feder, PortAventura 2013 Ebitda Margin Developments since entry: 40.8% President of the Executive Committee PortAventura Sales growth 28% Ebitda growth 101% Ebitda Margin growth 57% The acquisition was made possible through the close Building on the successful previous investment relationship with La Caixa, the largest savings bank in Europe, in Italian theme park operator Gardaland, and its majority-owned investment company Criteria Caixa Corp. Investindustrial acquired PortAventura in 2009. Since Investindustrial’s entry, PortAventura has performed well despite a very difficult economic environment. The company’s PortAventura (www.portaventura.com), established in 1995, is positive performance is a result of the industrially-driven the largest Southern European theme park and third largest in approach of Investindustrial and the introduction of a proven Europe. The site comprises an amusement park with 40 rides, management team from Gardaland led by Sergio Feder. The over 100 daily shows, 43 shops and arcades, a water park, four key drivers of the outperformance to date are the successfully hotels with over 2,000 rooms and a 4,000 person convention repositioned commercial strategy, improvements in the park and conferencing centre. PortAventura is located in the northofferings of shops and food, the addition of a new kids area and eastern coastal area of Spain (Costa Dorada), by the tourist the tallest rollercoaster in Europe, the launch of aquatic park and resort of Salou and less than one hour from Barcelona. an efficiency programme that has significantly increased the The area is a major tourist destination which attracts visitors profitability. During 2013, Investindustrial selected KKR as a 49.9% PortAventura’s Shambala rollercoaster, from across Europe. The park attracts more than 3.7 million partner in PortAventura to help take it to the next exciting level. the tallest in Europe local and international visits each year. 26 27 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 A successful Brand partnerships with Ferrari development strategy and Cirque Du Soleil Sales (€m) Since Investindustrial’s entry at the end of 2009, PortAventura By Year PortAventura is continuing to strengthen its positioning in has performed well: Ebitda has more than doubled increasing the premium tourism segment by increasing the international to €73.3 million with a margin of 41% and the number of visitors 172.8 179.3 179.4 image and branding of the park. In the first quarter of 2014, has increased by 6% as a result of new park offerings and 140.3 143.2 PortAventura reached a licensing agreement with Ferrari to a relaunched commercial strategy. The management of the establish “Ferrari Land”, a new theme park dedicated to the company has focused on the following areas over the past years: global brand of Ferrari within the PortAventura destination resort. The new branded site will be the sole Ferrari theme park New park offerings: The new kids area, SesamoAventura, and in Europe and is expected to open during 2016. Ferrari Land will the new rollercoster, Shambhala, which opened in the last two be built on a total surface area of 75,000 square meters and years, have continued to attract both repeat and new visitors benefit from several rides (including the highest and fastest throughout 2013. In 2013, PortAventura opened the doors to its 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 vertical accelerator in Europe), a new premium hotel with refurbished attraction, the Costa Caribe Aquatic Park. The water 250 rooms and 5 star service, restaurants, large simulation park is set in more than 50,000 sqaure metres of grounds and areas for car racing and shops. In addition, at the end of 2013 offers an extensive range of attractions to cater for the whole PortAventura signed an agreement with Cirque du Soleil, family. The new attraction for 2014 is the AngKhor Boat ride, the world’s most famous circus show brand, to perform one inspired by the famous Asian temple. of its shows (Kooza) at the resort during the months of July For the first time ever, Cirque du Soleil will be present Ebitda (€m) and Margin (%) and August of 2014. at a European holiday resort (PortAventura) Commercial strategy: In recent years, supported by the new By Year kids area and the new rollercoaster, the company has refocused 73.3 its marketing strategy to concentrate on traditional values, 68.7 59.0 entertainment and family. As a result, it has been able to reverse 40.8% the negative trend in visits prior to Investindustrial’s entry, 42.1 38.3% 36.4 34.1% achieving a substantial increase in visitors from abroad. 29.4% In the hotels business, the company has worked very closely 25.9% with major tour operators both in Spain and internationally to develop a cohesive marketing strategy to increase hotel bookings since 2009. PortAventura is investing significantly to further diversify its customer base and to attract new customers 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 especially from the promising Russian and Chinese markets. In addition, a new website and booking engine have been implemented, and along with the introduction of call centre best practices, have sienificantly increased direct bookings from €2 million in 2009 to €25 million in 2013. Ferrari Land is the new Ferrari theme park expected for 2016 From left: Giovanni Cavalli (Commercial Director), Gianfranco Bollini (Shows within the PortAventura Director), Sergio Feder (President), Giovanni Modena (Operations Director), destination resort and Fernando Aldecoa (Managing Director) 28 29 29 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENTS Investindustrial’s business focus As of the end of 2013, Investindustrial’s portfolio comprises of 16 investments and is well balanced across three main industry areas. The CC100 concept car was created to celebrate the centenary of Aston Martin sports car heritage, design capability and excellence 1 2 3 Consumer Services Industrial Retail and Manufacturing and Leisure Concessions Leading companies Leading providers of critical Global leaders in the which operate in markets or high value-added services. design and manufacturing with long-term growth The companies are typically of specialty products. underpinned by positive beneficiaries of a growing The underlying markets trends in demographics and global outsourcing trend. are mature and often consumption patterns. The Their asset-light capital consolidated with high underlying industries need structures gives them a barriers to entry for new to be mature but are often high cash conversion rate competition. Developing still fragmented, giving and an ability to expand economies are key in offering the company an attractive internationally without future growth opportunities opportunity to consolidate undertaking major capital and possibilities for the market. Growth is investments. The client base operational improvement. typically scalable on an can be made up of larger international level. corporations and government entities, or have a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. PortAventura’s convention center seats more than 4,000 people and hosts many blue-chip company events 30 31 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2013 Global drivers and industrial opportunities The difficult economic environment has presented As of the end of 2013, Investindustrial’s portfolio significant opportunities for us to strengthen comprises of 16 investments and is well balanced the long-term competitive advantage of our across the three selected industries. investments. Sales (%) Ebitda (%) By Sector Services Industrial Services Industrial and Concessions Manufacturing and Concessions Manufacturing 9% 25% 40% CONSUMER, SERVICES 48% RETAIL AND INDUSTRIAL 42% AND LEISURE CONCESSIONS MANUFACTURING 35% Consumer, Retail Consumer, and Leisure Retail and Leisure In this section sales and Ebitda are considered weighted by Investindustrial’s shareholding Ebitda Margin (%) By Sector Globalisation Economies of scale Globalisation GLOBAL 24,0% 24,3 % of consumer trends Outsourcing Growth of Asian markets DRIVERS 20,0% Aging population Increased need Cost efficency Changing consumer for information and 7,4% purchasing behaviour communication technology Total Global need for infrastructure investments Industrial Consumer, Retail Services Manufacturing and Leisure and Concessions 20% overall Ebitda Margin Add-on acquisitions Expanding service Improving operational INDUSTRIAL Capturing growth offering into adjacent fields efficiency of mid-market companies OPPORTUNITIES Total Employees (nr.) opportunities Synergistic add-on By Sector in new markets acquisitions Relocation 29,008 45,666 30,583 46,838 32,350 50,784 of manufacturing Improving Capturing growth 17,479 30,166 19,965 32,526 to Asia the marketing mix in developing markets Add-on acquisitions 4,857 4,742 14,370 14,503 16,695 High visibility on concessions 7,830 7,819 Total Total 2,288 Total 1,752 Total 1,739 Total The 2013 advertising campaign by Stroili Oro the italian leader 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in fashion jewelry Services and Concessions Consumer, Retail and Leisure Industrial Manufacturing 32 33 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PortAventura, leading European destination resort 2013 main events 1 Consumer, Retail and Leisure and theme park Stroili Oro, leading Italian retail chain for jewellery, in Consumer, Retail and Leisure watches and other gold and silver products Svenson, leading European provider of hair restoration Investindustrial’s Consumer, Retail and Leisure Sector currently treatments and services. comprises of the following companies: The acquisition of Aston Martin was completed at the Aston Martin, leading luxury sports cars manufacturer beginning of 2013, which explains most of the increase in Euskaltel, leading telecom cable operator sales and earnings during the year. In the first quarter of 2014, Aston Martin is a leading luxury car manufacturer and one of Gruppo Coin, apparel retail group Investindustrial signed an agreement for the sale of Svenson the most exclusive sports car brands in the world. Aston Martin’s Perfume Holding, leading producer and marketer to a European investment portfolio manager. iconic status and global footprint has been built through its of perfumes and cosmetics performance and elegant design, successfully marketed by featuring as James Bond’s car in many 007 movies over the Sales (%) last 50 years. After having achieved an agreement with the By Segment former shareholders, Investindustrial completed the investment Clothing Retail in the company in the first quarter of 2013. During the year, Seven segments Jewellery 9% Hair Restoration Aston Martin signed a significant strategic partnership with are present in Consumer, Retail 10% 2% Daimler AG, the German multinational automotive corporation. Retail and Leisure sector The agreement will allow Daimler and Aston Martin to develop Luxury bespoke V8 engines, supporting Aston Martin’s launch of a Sports Cars 33% next generation of models that will incorporate cutting edge Cosmetics technology and newly-developed engines, combining high 10% performance and fuel efficiency. At the beginning of 2014, Aston Telecom Martin closed a financing facility by issuing $165 million (€120 Services 11% million) of Senior Subordinated PIK notes to further support its development plans. Entertainment 24% www.astonmartin.com Sales (€m) Ebitda Margin (%) By Year By Year 757 25,9% 717 24,3% 598 543 20,6% 498 19,0% 18,9% +10% +27% -34% +44% -1% +9% +26% -6% Euskaltel is the leading telecommunications provider and sole cable operator in the Basque Region, one of Spain’s richest and most economically stable regions with fiscal autonomy and fiscal 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 surplus. Euskaltel provides fixed line, broadband and pay TV services to consumers and corporates, and also provides mobile services as a Mobile Virtual Network Operator (“MVNO”). Ebitda (€m) Employees (nr.) The Company has a proprietary state-of-the-art network By Year By Year 174 16,695 with over 330,000 km of fiber optic lines fully upgraded to 156 14,370 14,503 latest standard EuroDOCSIS 3.0. During 2013, the company’s 129 113 management and corporate governance was reinforced by 103 appointing a new General Manager, a new controller and three 4,857 independent board members with relevant industry and regional 4,742 experience. The company’s leading position and network +9% +38% -17% +35% -2% +203% +1% +15% standard makes it well placed to benefit from Spain catching up with European broadband penetration and increased broadband demand, as well as being in a strategic position to capitalise on 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 a market consolidation trend. The Aston Martin Vanquish was voted Best Car 2013 in the category Imported www.euskaltel.com Sports Car by the German automotive In 2013 sales increased by 44% and earnings by 35% Earnings margin decreased by 6% reaching the level magazine Auto Motor und Sport including the additive of Aston Martin of 24.3% while total employees increased to almost 16,700 34 35 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The 2013 renewed Costa Caribe aquatic park in PortAventura Gruppo Coin is Italy’s leading apparel retail group, successfully PortAventura is the largest destination resort in Southern Europe Stroili Oro is the leading Italian brand in affordable fashion operating a network (including franchising) of approximately and the number two in Europe by number of rooms. Building on jewelry. Stroili Oro sells its products through approximately 1,100 stores in Italy and 162 abroad under three different brand the previous successful Investindustrial investment in Gardaland, 380 directly operated stores (DOS) and 800 wholesale outlets names: OVS Industry (the largest Italian apparel retailer), Investindustrial invested in PortAventura at the end of 2009 and in Italy, Germany, Spain, China, Russia and Middle East located Coin (the largest Italian department store operator) and UPIM offered the support of the former managers of Gardaland, who within shopping malls, department stores and city centres. (acquired in 2010 and in the process of being converted into OVS now work closely with the company. Over the last four years the In addition Stroili Oro is present in major airline catalogues Industry or a younger format named UPIM POP). Gruppo Coin company has implemented a development strategy based on such as Qantas, KLM, Emirates and Etihad. The company after is a quality company with an excellent management team and product innovation (a new aquatic park, Costa Caribe, a new kids having completed its expansion phase through the opening commands approximately a 7% market share in Italy ahead of area, Sesamo Adventure, and Shambhala, the tallest rollercoaster of new points of sale in the shopping centers of the domestic groups such as Zara, H&M and Benetton. in Europe), a new marketing strategy focused on traditional values, market, is currently consolidating its high street stores presence In 2013, Gruppo Coin continued to be affected by challenging entertainment and family and improvement of efficiency. Excellent while continuing to capture expansion opportunities abroad. market conditions and maintained strong cost controls and business results have been achieved since Investindustrial’s entry The company is continuing its process of cost optimisation working capital management while continuing the retail network with significant increases in profitability, in numbers of visitors and and profitability improvement by rationalizing the central expansion. in hotel occupancy. At the end of 2013, PortAventura successfully functions and logistical processes. Furthermore, the company www.gruppocoin.com completed its debut high-yield bond transaction for a total strengthened its management team and implemented consideration of €420 million of Senior Secured Notes and 49.9% significant training programmes to improve the commercial of the company was sold to KKR. In March 2014, PortAventura skills of its sales force. Stroili Oro continues to launch national reached a licensing agreement with Ferrari to establish Ferrari TV media campaigns to heighten store recognition, support Land, the sole Ferrari theme park in Europe expected to open private labels and improve overall customer experience. during 2016. In addition, at the end of 2013 PortAventura signed www.stroilioro.com an agreement with Cirque du Soleil, a major global entertainment brand, to perform one of its shows (Kooza) at the resort during the months of July and August. www.portaventura.es Coin store in San Giovanni, Rome (Italy) The Stroili Oro flagship store on Corso Vittorio Emanuele, Milan Perfume Holding produces and markets perfumes for a number of well-known brands. The license portfolio includes Ferrari, La Perla, Iceberg, Liu Jo, Grigio Perla, John Galliano, Ducati and Sergio Tacchini. In addition, the group owns the Atkinsons and I Coloniali brands. The company has a direct presence in Italy, France, Germany, UK and Singapore. The company is consolidating its strategy of creating the first alternative to In 2013 Svenson continued to adjust to the new economic multinational perfumes companies through the acquisition of environment, with special emphasis on cost reduction, including small-medium size brands and companies. The build-up strategy a more efficient use of human resources, the monitoring of has allowed the group to reach a more flexible and integrated workload per individual, the closing of non-profitable centres structure with a stronger management team able to oversee and the optimization of the acquisition cost per new client. and direct the entire process. The company is developing its The company is operating under difficult economic conditions international distribution through selected partnerships with key with consumer spending down significantly. Nevertheless, distributors in order to capture opportunities in the emerging it is continuing to diversify its product offering towards a markets. During 2013 a new license has been signed with Liu more profitable mix: growth in the medical division based in Jo, one of the most successful Italian fashion brands. At the micrographs and dermatology treatments. In March 2014, beginning of 2014 the company strengthened its management Svenson was exited to a European investment portfolio manager. team by hiring a new CEO. Ferrari is one of several great brands www.svenson.es www.perfumeholding.com whose fragrances are managed by Perfume Holdings 36 37 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Banca Popolare di Milano, leading Italian financial institution 2013 main events 2 Services and Concessions Cogetech, leading Italian technology producer and concession operator in the gaming sector in Services and Concessions Panda Security, global integrated security software provider SNAI, leading Italian operator in the gaming industry As at the end of 2013, Investindustrial’s Services and Transport Sanitari de Catalunya, leading Spanish ambulance Concessions sector comprises of the following companies: services company. Applus, leading world-wide inspection, certification During the first quarter of 2014 Investindustrial sold its and technological services shareholdings in both Banca Popolare di Milano and Avincis. Applus is one of the largest leading testing, inspection, certification Avincis, leading European provider of mission-critical and technological services company in the world. The company aerial services is continuing to reinforce its presence in emerging markets, broadening its service portfolio to the energy industry and further diversifying its geographical footprint. In 2013 the company Sales (%) delivered substantial organic growth helped by a buoyant Oil By Segment and Gas industry and delivered an all-time high Ebitda. Applus continues to be focused on business development through Six segments Certification greenfield efforts and selective bolt-on acquisitions such as the are present in the Services Inspection Security Software successful acquisition of EDI, a Chinese company specialised in and Concessions sector 10% 2% automotive design and engineering completed in March 2013. Emergency Transport Services The company has also recently strengthened its management team Aviation 14% Services through the design and implementation of a new organization 30% model. In May 2014 Applus was listed at the Madrid stock exchange. Financial Services www.applus.com 18% Gaming 27% Sales (€m) Ebitda Margin (%) By Year By Year 812 24,3% 767 22,4% 21,1% 708 Applus inspection operations in Spain 18,2% 18,7% 407 312 +13% +74% +8% +6% +2% +13% +6% +9% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Avincis is the world leading provider of mission-critical emergency aerial services with over 40 years of experience and a presence in Australia, Chile, France, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Ebitda (€m) Employees (nr.) Peru, Portugal, Spain and the UK. Its services are provided By Year By Year predominantly to public administrations (principally central 197 29,008 30,583 32,350 and regional governments) on concession-type medium to long172 term contracts, the majority of which have fixed charge revenue 149 19,965 structures. Avincis is consolidating its global leadership in the 17,479 emergency and mission critical helicopter services market both 76 57 by reinforcing organic growth in the domestic market and by implementing selective international bolt-on acquisitions. +33% +96% +15% +15% +14% +45% +5% +6% In early 2014 the Group reached an agreement with Scandinavian AirAmbulance to further expand its business 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 into Denmark, Finland and Sweden. In March 2014 Avincis was sold to Babcock International Group Plc (LSE:BAB), the UK’s leading engineering support services company Avincis’ rescue operations In 2013 sales increased by 6% and earnings by 15% Earnings margin increased by 9% reaching the level and a FTSE 100 company. in Northern Italy of 24.3% while total employees increased to 32,350 www.avincisgroup.com 38 39 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Banca Popolare di Milano is a multi-regional Northern Italian Panda Security is a leading provider of cloud-based security SNAI is the third largest player in the Italian gaming sector retail bank established in 1865 and serves 1.4 million customers solutions with products available in more than 23 languages and the market leader in the horse racing and sport betting through a network of 770 retail branches and 57 financial and millions of users located around the world. Panda has been segments. The company has the largest Italian network of more centers. BPM is the second largest bank in Milan in terms transformed from a local operator into a multinational company than 600 shops and owns the rights for 1,900 betting corners of branches and is the sixth largest bank in Northern Italy. by repositioning its product offering towards a more focused yet and the concession to operate more than 5,000 video lottery BPM offers retail and corporate banking products and services, global customer base and through an improved geographical terminals. The gaming industry has high barriers to entry arising brokerage services, investment banking, insurance and wealth presence. The management has been focusing on repositioning from its concession nature and hence provides good revenue management products. Since Investindustrial invested in the the company as a multinational IT cloud security services visibility. During 2013 SNAI successfully settled a litigation with bank, it sought to strengthen its management and a new provider, by leveraging its strong proprietary product portfolio regards to the Corte dei Conti, strengthened its management strategic plan was developed focusing mainly on increasing and acquiring franchisees to further control the end client. team and it is now well positioned to capture value from the efficiency, offering more competitive services and maintaining The company is focusing on the expansion of cloud offering introduction of new games. tight internal controls and risk management policies. for corporate buildings based on the successful cloud product www.grupposnai.it At the beginning of 2014 the shareholding of BPM was divested that exists today and on the launch of the next generation of through a public market transaction. innovative products (white listing/big data/behavior analysis). www.bpm.it www.pandasecurity.com TSC operations in Barcelona (Spain) Panda Security, product offering A SNAI gaming center in Milan (Italy) Transport Sanitari de Catalunya – TSC, with almost 850 ambulances, is the leading provider of outsourced emergency transportation services in Spain and one of the largest in Cogetech is one of the leading technology providers Europe. TSC operates a non-cyclical business with 90% of the and concession operators in the fast growing Italian market already structured as medium-long term concessions gaming sector and operates one of ten gaming concessions (2 to 8 years). After having invested at the end of 2010, in Italy. The company’s primary business is the operation and Investindustrial is supporting the company in developing management of a network of amusement machines, both paid a national and international strategy for consolidating the amusement machines (“AWP”) and video lottery terminals fragmented outsourced emergency services sector, and (“VLT”) which are typically located in bars and betting shops betting segments and to build critical mass to further grow the in diversifying revenue streams by providing a variety of across Italy. Cogetech is a solid platform to implement a growth existing online platform. During 2013 Cogetech successfully outsourced emergency services, objectives which are expected strategy in a fragmented market with strong potential for settled a litigation with regards to the Corte dei Conti the to harness growth. In recent months add-on acquisitions have A service center of Banca Popolare di Milano, Milan (Italy) consolidation. The acquisition of Ladbrokes Italia contributed to implementation plan of the video lottery terminals. been completed in the UK, Canary Islands and Balearic Islands. further diversifying operations into the physical sport and horse www.cogetech.it www.tscambulancies.com 40 41 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2013 main events 3 Industrial Manufacturing in Industrial Manufacturing The Industrial Manufacturing Sector comprises of the following companies: AEB Group, leading global biochemical producer of food Polynt, European and American leader in the production AEB Group is a leading global biochemical producer of food and drink additives of specific polymer intermediates and derivatives. and drink additives, specifically oenology, beer and juices. The Group is continuing its strategy of becoming a leading worldwide provider of value added services and biotechnologies to the beverage and agro-alimentary industries. After having established a direct presence in Australia, Chile and USA, Sales (%) AEB Group is continuing its international growth and product By Segment diversification. AEB has been able to expand outside its Two segments are traditional European markets (Italy, France and Spain), entering present in the Industrial new geographies such as South Africa, China, North and South Biochemicals Manufacturing sector 12% America. The company initiated sales of bacteria in the dairy Chemicals and cheese segment in Chile and France and introduced new 88% filtration systems and cartridges for the oenology market and new products for small breweries (new anti-foam products and new detergents). During 2013, several initiatives were undertaken to consolidate geographical diversification, increase the product range and improve the cost efficiency. Expansion into the German market was pursued to target the local wine market, in addition to the establishment of a joint venture in Spain aimed at developing filtration aids and the set up of a JV Sales (€m) Ebitda Margin (%) for the production of tannins in Argentina. AEB control operations in one By Year www.aeb-group.com of the warehouses in Brescia (Italy) By Year 973 10,3% 840 9,7% 8,6% 8,3% 7,4% 577 Product testing at one 529 505 of the AEB Group laboratories, Brescia (Italy) +16% -41% -8% -4% +6% -17% -4% -10% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Ebitda (€m) Employees (nr.) By Year By Year 101 7,830 7,819 82 49 44 38 2,288 1,752 1,739 +23% -51% -12% -14% +0% -71% -23% -1% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In 2013 sales decreased by 4% and earnings by 14% Earnings margin decreased by 10% reaching the level of 7.4% while total employees decreased to 1,739 42 43 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Polynt is the European and American leader in the production expansion plans, both organically and through acquisitions. of intermediate and specialty polymers. The Group continues Today Polynt has been repositioned to be a global specialty to strengthen its leadership position in Western markets, player with a worldwide footprint and business presence. In a further expanding into new geographies and also successfully challenging 2013 the Group continued to control fixed costs recovering volume sales and profitability in this difficult and efficiency levels and increase exports into higher growth market environment. Following the acquisition of PCCR, the regions. The Group is facing an opportunity to become a North American coatings and composites resins business of consolidator and to create one of the biggest players worldwide Momentive Specialty Chemicals, Polynt became a truly global in the coating and composite resin market. player with manufacturing presence in Europe, Asia and North Polynt is currently evaluating several value-accretive acquisition America and a critical mass from which to further consolidate opportunities in specialty niches in the US and in Europe. the market. The North American acquisition is further evidence www.polynt.com of portfolio companies’ ability to implement international With the acquisition Overview of Polynt’s of PCCR, Polynt manufacturing plant is now able to provide in Scanzorosciate, a comprehensive Bergamo (Italy) product offering in the compounds and resins business on both sides of the Atlantic 44 45 Social Responsibility // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We care about helping people to achieve a better quality of life by offering tangible opportunities. Investindustrial firmly believes that managing environmental, social and governance issues (ESG) is an increasingly important part of its value proposition. In accordance with this Finance belief, Investindustrial has subscribed to the Principles for Initiative Responsible Investment (PRI – www.unpri.org), an initiative Innovative financing launched in April 2006 at the New York Stock Exchange by the for sustainability UN Secretary-General and coordinated by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the UN Global Compact. The six Being active owners Promoting acceptance Reporting on our Part of a global interconnected and incorporating and implementation activities and progress sustainability Principles aim networkESG matters into of the Principles towards implementing. to act a framework our ownership policies within the investment for global and practices. industry. best practices in responsible investment Incorporating ESG Seeking appropriate Working together matters into the disclosure on ESG to enhance investment analysis matters by the entities our effectiveness and decision-making in which we invest. in implementing processes. the Principles. In 2008 the Group joined the UN Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) by adhering to its ten principles. BAL COM LO These principles are key guidelines in making business THE CT decisions for Investindustrial and include respect for human G PA rights, ensuring appropriate labour conditions, respect for the environment and the application of anti-corruption measures. Investindustrial has also supported the adoption of these values by its portfolio companies. WE SUPPORT 46 47 Social Responsibility // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Engaging in corporate Significant commitment social responsibility from portfolio companies Portfolio companies are strongly committed to improving their Snai publishes a detailed social responsibility report with With a vision to create enduring value for its portfolio environmental, social and governance footprint and focus a significant amount of information including improvements companies, its stakeholders and its investors, intensely on developing sustainable long-term growth plans. made by the company during the year. As an illustrative example, during 2013 the company improved the absenteeism Investindustrial works closely with management rate by 11% and reduced the accident rate by 30% despite to build a more sustainable future. an increase in the number of employees. Additionally the consumption of water per employee in SNAI S.p.A. diminished by Investindustrial is strongly committed to promoting a culture of has strengthened its corporate social responsibility footprint by 18% and the recycled waste amounts to 68% of total waste. sustainable development both with initiatives within the Group developing two policies on Environmental, Social and Corporate and with external stakeholders. In particular, Investindustrial Governance issues and on Responsible Investing. Investindustrial promoted the creation of a corporate foundation within PortAventura (www.portaventura.co.uk/foundation) to support differently–abled children and young adults Corporate responsibility map to achieve a better quality of living. Each year PortAventura for new investments & add-ons. donates 0.7% of its net profits to the foundation. PortAventura operates in all the facilities that it manages with maximum Preliminary investment Final investment respect for the environment and produces an environmental Euskaltel is one of Investindustrial’s Due diligence portfolio companies active in sponsoring recommendation (PIR) recommendation (FIR) report of its activities on a yearly basis in addition to a corporate social activities for differently abled people responsibility report. NO RISK Proceed with investment process PIR and FIR record due diligence findings of new/further investment ASSESSMENT In June 2012 TSC launched a new project to improve its OF COMPLIANCE NO RISK carbon footprint by reducing the fuel consumption. The project WITH RESPONSIBLE Proceed with new/further investment encompasses all vehicles (both PTS and Blue Light) and consists INVESTING POLICY FIR records due diligence findings of regular monitoring of consumption by vehicle and by cruise. On a monthly basis the management identify the best performer Activities performed RISKS TO BE FURTHER RISKS ACCEPTABLE/ and after one year the winning cruise will obtain a special by the advisory team INVESTIGATED ACTIONS REQUIRED recognition. As of the end of 2013, the reduction in average litre with the support of: Proceed with due diligence Proceed with new/further investment consumption every 100km was 1% both in PTS and in Blue Light PIR presents risks/future actions FIR highlights corrective actions vehicles. monitoring team risk management RISKS UNACCEPTABLE sustainability officer Decline new/further investment FIR contains reasons for decline legal counsel compliance Investindustrial, a carbonneutral® company external professionals RISKS UNACCEPTABLE Decline new/further investment Investindustrial places significant importance on reducing PIR contains reasons for decline its carbon footprint and has worked with the CarbonNeutral Company, a world leading provider of carbon reduction solutions, to measure its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions footprint. During 2013 our responsible investing guidelines have been processes to strengthen the engagement of its portfolio In recent years, the Group has supported several projects to reviewed and certain sectors have been excluded from the companies towards ESG matters and is expecting even stronger offset the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. The last two investment focus while other sectors have been subordinated involvement in the future. Investindustrial management has also projects supported were in Turkey (Aydin Geothermal Energy to respect more stringent requirements prior to executing been actively involved by speaking on sustainability at industryand Ankara Landfill Gas to Energy). In addition Investindustrial investments and during the investment holding period. Through leading events. has undertaken a series of actions to reduce its overall emissions these policies, Investindustrial is also developing tools and per employee. 48 49 Social Responsibility // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Promoting acceptance and Sales (%) By Year Engaging with leading implementation of responsible 521.4 562.4 566.5 academic institutions investing within the industry 340.8 302.3 262.9 Following the successful sale of Avincis, the European venture 134.8 158.8 In March 2014, Andrea C. Bonomi gave a keynote speech at 124.6 Capital Association (EVCA), approached Investindustrial the 10th Annual Private Equity and Venture Capital Conference +8% +18% +66% +15% +13% +53% +8% +1% to showcase the investment as an example of sustainable at the London Business School on the topic of how the most investing. Highlights of the Investindustrial investment thesis successful firms have embraced necessary changes and evolved and actions include: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 their strategies whilst maintaining their core focus. Recognising Development of a company with a solid and sustainable that the evolution of the industry is likely to continue for some business model, high quality services and strong attention time, Andrea C. Bonomi illustrated how Investindustrial was one to safety. of the successful players in this changing industry. Ebitda (€m) Significant expansion in new markets such as Australia, By Year Chile, Denmark, France, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Peru, 142.1 143.0 UK and Sweden. 137.5 Strengthening of management team and corporate 90.6 governance. 79.0 Avincis was sold to a solid and reputable industrial partner. 71.3 34.7 43.0 Strengthening of the financial structure through four 25.4 refinancings to fund growth. +37% +24% +66% +11% +15% +52% +3% +1% Significant increase in the workforce. Investindustrial promoted Avincis to adhere to the UN Global Compact initiative and to report on progress. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 During 2013, Andrea C. Bonomi gave a keynote speech at the Stern Private Equity Conference at the New York University (USA), discussing strategies for private equity in the current economic climate in Europe and worldwide. Dörte Höppner, Secretary-General European Venture Capital Association Andrea C. Bonomi (Senior Industrial “Avincis is an excellent example of how Advisor at Investindustrial) presenting at the 2013 Stern Private Equity Investindustrial has been able to help build Conference at the New York University (USA) a private, European mid-market company into a world leader. Private equity in Europe plays an increasingly important role in creating jobs In 2013, Harvard Business School completed a case study on Investindustrial’s successful turnaround of Ducati, and raising companies’ global competitiveness”. which was sold in 2012 to the German automotive group Volkswagen. 50 51 Social Responsibility // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Invest for Children, an active corporate foundation In 2000 Investindustrial established Invest for Children, a corporate foundation whose mission is to help differently abled people and underprivileged children achieve a better quality of life. Invest for Children operates in Europe with a special focus on Southern Europe (Spain, Italy, Portugal and Switzerland) and is a full member of EVPA (European Venture Philanthropy Association), Private Equity Foundation and is audited by KPMG. Investindustrial believes that financial and industrial investors should have a major role in making the world a better place to live in. Invest for Children aims to understand diversity and work towards integration and represents a useful vehicle to help disabled people to achieve a better quality of living. Invest for Children has sponsored several projects in a series of different fields (sport, work, education, medical, community and other) some of which are summarised in the following pages. www.investforchildren.org The President of Invest for Children (Investindustrial’s corporate foundation) Carlo Umberto Bonomi is donating La Caixa savings plan to a worker with Maria Vicente and Urbano Gropello (Invest Down’s syndrome for Children) Tangible support to facilitate the social integration of differently-abled people Ruben is working for PortAventura and is one of the many differently-abled people who have been employed by leading corporations in Spain thanks also to the support of Invest for Children. 52 53 Social Responsibility // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Invest for Children’s Aura foundation marked a milestone for the foundation During 2012, Aura integration of differently methodology. Foundation became a part abled people in a working Since 1989 more than 100 of i4c to double the size of enviroment. The Project young people have joined the foundation over the next Aura (www.projectaura.org) the ordinary working world. five years. The project aims was established in Barcelona More than 80% of the to significantly increase the in October 1989, by an workers have maintained number of differently-abled initiative of professionals their positions and have people who are able to from the area of integration indefinite term contracts. enter work in the coming education. Project Aura is the Project Aura is a founding years. Invest for Children first program of Supported member of AESE (Spanish is committed to financially Employment in Spain, a Association of Employment), supporting the foundation pioneer in the implementation ACTAS (Catalan Association and to offering managerial and development of this for Supported Employment), and strategic consulting skills methodology. The aim of this a member of FEISD (Spanish to allow the foundation to program is to integrate people of Down’s Syndrome) and achieve its mission. Leading with special needs, mostly APPS (Catalan Federation companies have already with Down’s Syndrome, to the for protection of people joined the Project Aura ordinary labour market via with mental retardation). initiatives to facilitate the the Supported Employment From left: Gloria Canals (Director of Aura Foundation), Carlos Martinez de Campos (Chairman of Barclays Bank SAU), Beatriz Morilla (Director Citizenship Barclays Europe) and Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Senior Principal at Investindustrial) during the signing of the agreement between Barclays and Invest for Children to support the activities of Aura Foundation 54 55 Social Responsibility // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Some examples of Invest for Children activities Education Social Support Sport Community Medical Other Invest for Children has GiGi’s Playhouses are Down Invest for Children has Invest for Children in Down TV (www.downtv.org) Down TV aims to increase Invest for Children initiated Invest for Children is a full created Los Peces no Syndrome awareness and committed for the fifth co-operation with Fundación is the first worldwide online interaction between people a collaboration with the member of the Private se mojan, the first short educational centers that consecutive year to support FC Barcelona has organised interactive video library fully with this disability. Hospital Sant Joan de Deu Equity Foundation whose animation created by children provide resources, specialized the work done from the a video contest for Down TV dedicated to people with In 2013 Down TV reached in Barcelona to develop mission is to empower young both with and without teaching, and support Fundación Theodora and its regarding sport and Down’s syndrome. 1,000,000 hits, becoming the program “Non Invasive people to reach their full disabilities. The shortfilm is to individuals with Down Giggle Doctors. More than intellectual disability. Videos are classified in a beacon in the Down’s Ventilation (NIV) at the reach potential. The foundation already being delivered at Syndrome and their families. 1,500 admitted children in The aim of the initiative is different areas and Syndrome online community. of everyone” whose main invests both money and all Spanish schools to create In just 9 years, 12 Playhouses Vall d’Hebron Hospital in to show how sport is vital cover all aspects of living Down TV’s Facebook page has objective is to increase the expertise from the private awareness and improve have opened in the USA and Barcelona received a visit for personal and social with Down’s syndrome. In this more than 10,000 followers. level of scientific knowledge equity community, to help inclusion of children with Mexico. i4c has committed to from a Giggle Doctor, a development in particular interactive platform, users and to promote the use of excellent charities achieve a Down’s Syndrome. This finance the build-out of the specialist entertainer, highly for people with intellectual can upload their videos and NIV in Pediatrics. step-change in their impact. project has taken place proposed teen/young adult trained to work both in the disabilities. documents related to Down’s The project is under the thanks to the cooperation center. This collaboration will hospital environment and with syndrome and share their leadership of Dr. Martí Pons. with Down España. take about three years. children with disabilities. experience. On 6th June 2013, Invest for Children held a fund raising event the “Joined Together” Charitable 7-A-Side Football A strong partnership with the Memorial Championship in the Stadium of the RCD Espanyol in Barcelona. Each company had a team, who played against each other Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center during the morning. At the end, the winning team of the championship played a game against a team of former RCD Invest for Children is co-operating with the Memorial SloanEspanyol football players. The prize giving took place during Kettering Cancer Center (www.mskcc.org) to support innovative a gala dinner on the same evening with attendance from treatments for retinoblastoma, a tumor that occurs in the retina. more than 900 people. During dinner, there were several The program is under the direction of Mr. David H. Abramson performances carried out by artists from PortAventura. MD which introduced many new treatments for the disease In additon a raffle and charity auction were conducted by that have been adopted by other centers worldwide, including the Spanish actor Santi Millán. We counted on the support the novel use of chemotherapy delivered around the eye to of sponsors such as: prevent systemic toxicity to intravenous medication. The Center with 470 beds, is located in New York City and is the oldest and largest private institution committed to exceptional patient care, leading-edge research, and superb educational programs. Invest for Children is supporting the Center by: Gala Dinner at the Espanyol Football Stadium offering optical coherence tomography equipment, developing online educational resources for retinoblastoma patients, financing the artificial eye fund, supporting the patient free care program. Mr. David H. Abramson MD coordinator of the retinoblastoma program 56 57 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Sales (€m) SUMMARY GROUP By Sector Variance 2012 2013 €m % INFORMATION (1) Services and Concessions 4,393 4,651 258 +6% Consumer, Retail and Leisure 2,333 2,934 601 +26% Industrial Manufacturing 938 894 (45) -5% Total 7,664 8,479 815 +11% Ebitda (€m) By Sector Variance During 2013, Group In 2013 Group The number 2012 2013 €m % sales grew by 11% Ebitda increased of employees Services and Concessions 1,016 1,201 185 +18% mainly due to by 18% mainly due increased by Consumer, Retail and Leisure Industrial Manufacturing 412 516 103 +25% 74 62 (11) -15% the growth in the to the contribution 8% reaching Consumer, Retail of the Services approximately Total 1,502 1,779 277 +18% and Leisure sector and Concessions 50,800, mainly due Net Debt Ratios (1) Variance impacted by the sector (in particular to the growth in 2012 2013 X % acquisition of Aston Banca Popolare di investments in the Senior Debt/Ebitda Mezzanine/Ebitda 3,8x 3,7x -0,1x -3% 0,3x 0,3x 0,0x -12% Martin. Milano, Snai and Consumer, Retail Employees (nr.) On a like-for-like Applus) while the and Leisure sector. By Sector Variance basis, excluding see-through Senior 2012 2013 Employees % extraordinary Debt /Ebitda ratio Services and Concessions 30,583 32,350 1,767 +6% transactions the decreased slightly Consumer, Retail and Leisure 14,503 16,695 2,192 +15% 1,752 1,739 (13) -1% Group registered to 3.7x. Industrial Manufacturing an increase in sales Total 46,838 50,784 3,946 +8% by 2%. (1) Excluding Banca Popolare di Milano. Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of each year. Investindustrial’s funds typically own a majority position but not always. (1) Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of each year. Investindustrial’s funds typically own a majority position but not always. The Aston Martin Vanquish 58 59 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Social Responsability // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Investments by date Our investors for the past five years While Investindustrial itself is the single largest provider of capital, more than fifty institutional investors from around Typically in five years, Investindustrial the world form the capital and client base of the Group. selectively makes ten to twelve investments in Investindustrial started the year with €1.3 billion available for investments and following the investment in Aston Martin leading quality European mid-market companies. and supplying further capital to two existing portfolio companies As illustrated below, this has been the case for add-on acquisitions, it ended the year with €1.2 billion over the last five years. available for investments. The firm’s objective is to remain active across business cycles by focusing on long term value creation, an approach shared by our high quality investor base. The strong support our investors have shown us throughout the recent recession is expected to be rewarded as Europe slowly returns to growth. The courageous allocation decisions our investors have during the recession has positioned us in a privileged position to jointly take advantage of renewed confidence in the investment environment in our region, of which we ourselves are optimistic and best placed to exploit given the firm’s competitive advantages. Breakdown of Investors (%) By Type Banks/Insurances/ Other Financials 15% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Pension Funds/ Governments Funds 40% of Funds Total Investments (%) 18% By Region Endowments/ Foundations/ Family Offices UK 27% 20% Spain 34% By Region Asia 8% Italy 46% Europe 64% North America 28% As of the end of 2013 Investindustrial’s investments were well balanced across three main countries: Avincis’ rescue operations UK, Italy and Spain in France 60 61 The partially post-consumer recycled paper used for printing this document has resulted in CO2 emissions of approximately 6.0 tonnes. Since 2009 Investindustrial reviewed its overall carbon footprint and invested in renewable energy projects to offset the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT US AT info@investindustrial.com co m tindustrial. www.inves
