Global Compact Communication on Progress Messe Frankfurt 2013 /2014 2 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Setting a sustainable example Foreword by the Executive Board Trust is the foundation of all successful business relationships – and we are unceasing in our efforts to further strengthen the trust of our customers and stakeholders worldwide. That is why respect and fairness in dealing with business partners, the principles of sustainable business and the recognition of our social responsibility are embedded in our company philosophy. This provides important guidance for our actions – both at our home base in Frankfurt and at more than 30 locations worldwide. Since 2010 we have made this philosophy a matter of public record as the first German trade fair company to become an official member of the United Nations Global Compact, committing ourselves to its ten principles in the area of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We feel it is our obligation to uphold these principles and we will continue to adhere to them in future. From May 2013 to May 2014, the period covered by the current Communication on Progress, we were once again able to launch numerous projects large and small, creating opportunities for sustainable development. At our home location in Frankfurt we operate one of the world‘s largest exhibition grounds, and measures targeting its sustainable development offer us a tremendous opportunity to make a difference in the environmental sphere in particular. One recent example is our just-opened Kap Europa congress centre, the first convention building worldwide to be awarded a DGNB Gold Certificate. Many of our Group and guest events are also increasing their focus on sustainability and its many facets. The addition of Watertech India has allowed us to further expand our trade fair portfolio in the area of environmental technology. Ecostyle, the first trade fair for verified sustainable consumer goods, enjoyed a very promising debut, while sustainability and the paramount issue of energy efficiency were the primary focus of our Light+Building flagship fair. These are but a few examples of our ongoing activities in the field of sustainability that we would like to present to you in greater detail in this Communication on Progress, while also offering a preview of future developments. I hope that you find this an interesting and stimulating read. Best regards, Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive officer (CEO) of Messe Frankfurt GmbH 3 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 A global leader Messe Frankfurt Messe Frankfurt is synonymous with new ideas, International Motor Show (IAA), the Frankfurt innovations and trends, not only at its home base Book Fair and Achema, the world‘s largest trade in Frankfurt, but around the globe. Regardless of fair for the chemicals industry, are guests in whether it be on the exhibition grounds, within Frankfurt on a regular basis. the framework of events or as part of its digital products and services, the company opens up In 2013, Messe Frankfurt organised a total of 114* international markets to its customers and creates trade fairs and exhibitions, of which 71 took place opportunities for people to come into contact with outside Germany. We were able to welcome more one another – an indispensable foundation for than 78,500* exhibitors and over 3.6* million sound and sustainable business relationships. visitors to our events, and served as a host for our customers at more than 30 locations around the With approx. 543* million euros in sales (includglobe. Messe Frankfurt is also a top address for ing profits of approx. 40 million euros) and 2,026* the congress and convention business: in 2013 employees, Messe Frankfurt GmbH is one of the some 93,000* participants came to the 72 events world’s leading trade show organisers. The held in Frankfurt. company has a global network of 28 subsidiaries (*Preliminary figures for 2013) and approx. 50 international Sales Partners, giving it a presence for its customers in more than 150 >540 countries. Mio. EUR Messe Frankfurt is comprised of Messe Frankfurt Venue GmbH and Messe Frankfurt Exhibition GmbH, two independent and wholly owned subsidiaries SALES of the holding company Messe Frankfurt GmbH. The company is publicly owned, with the City of Frankfurt holding 60 percent and the State of Hesse 40 percent. 114 TRADE FAIRS Messe Frankfurt‘s business activities are focused WORLDWIDE on the organisation and implementation of trade fairs, exhibitions and conventions. The company also offers its customers a wide range of supporting services for all aspects of its events – including logistics, stand construction, catering, publishing and digital services. present in Messe Frankfurt’s events in the fields of “Technology & Production”, “Consumer Goods & Leisure”, “Textiles & Textile Technologies”, “Mobility & Infrastructure” and “Entertainment, >150 Media & Creation” shape markets and trends COUNTRIES worldwide. Leading trade fairs such as Ambiente, Automechanika, Light & Building and ISH are among the highlights in their industries, while high-profile international events such as the > 2.000 EMPLOYEES 4 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Thinking and acting responsibly Our philosophy Sustainability as part of our corporate culture At Messe Frankfurt, sustainability means responsithat is reflected in the activities of all parts of the ble business practices, something which encomGroup worldwide. We are also careful to emphapasses economic, ecological and social factors. sise our ties to the city and region, not only at our Accordingly, sustainability has always been a key base in Frankfurt, but all around the world. component of our corporate culture, something Our past shapes our future The roots of our philosophy can be found in our owners of Messe Frankfurt. Time and again, trade past: more than 750 years of trade fair history have fairs have helped to spark progress, playing a key given rise to a close connection with the City of role in the development of Frankfurt into a prosperFrankfurt and the State of Hesse, who are now the ous international financial and service centre. Working with partners Today, one of the areas in which our commitment sustainable organisation and implementation of to CSR is put into practice is through our particievents. These public efforts are supplemented by pation in sustainability networks: since 2010 continuous stakeholder involvement and by Messe Frankfurt has been a member of the United participation in trade fair association task forces Nations Global Compact – the first German trade – such as its collaboration on the certification fair organiser to become a member. In addition, as a system for convention buildings newly developed participant in the “Charter of Diversity” initiative, by the German Sustainable Building Council Messe Frankfurt has also committed itself to (Deutsche Gesellschaft für nachhaltiges Bauen e.V. recognising and promoting the valuable role of – DGNB) and its participation in the Sustainability diversity in its corporate culture. Committee of the international trade fair associaSince 2013, Congress Frankfurt has been supporttion UFI. ing the “fairpflichtet – rightandfair” codex for the 5 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Emphases of our CSR activities Since 2012 we have been summarizing this issue. All of our new initiatives are tailored to Messe Frankfurt‘s many CSR activities in the four local conditions and implemented on an individual areas Environment/Sustainability, Social Responsibility, basis, and we give great weight to long-term Education/Science and Cultural Involvement. impact and credibility. These initiatives are good By the designation with the “simply sustainable” fits for our portfolio and cover the following areas slogan and logo we are able to increase the focus of activity: on sustainability while also raising awareness of Environment/ Sustainability In this field we have implemented numerous measures to conserve resources and protect our environSocial ment, such as the energy-efficient Responsibility development of our exhibition grounds. entails an obligation to our employees, our stakeholders and society. This includes offering above-average working conditions wherever we are active and supporting regional social institutions. Cultural Involvement at Messe Frankfurt includes support for such events as the Luminale, the “Lighting Education/ Culture Biennale” which takes place alongside Light + Building, and the presenScience tation of prizes such as the PRG Live Entertainment Award (LEA) at the is an area in which Messe Frankfurt Musikmesse. has been taking long-term steps – for example with its endowment of the Professorship for International Economic Policy at Frankfurt’s Johann Wolfgang Goethe University. 6 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Sustainability An indispensable component of trade fair operations 1.100 kWp Venue | Source Messe Frankfurt GmbH / Marc Jacquemin GREEN ENERGY Operator of one of the world‘s largest exhibition grounds In 2013 Messe Frankfurt played host to 36* trade systems on the exhibition grounds since 2009, fairs in Frankfurt alone – that is why energy effiand their total output of approx. 1,100 kWp of green ciency and the conservation of resources are so electricity is enough to meet the needs of up to 350 important to us. We are continually looking for households. Sustainability also plays an important ways in which we can reduce our consumption of role in the continued development of the exhibition electricity, water and heating energy through grounds. The new Kap Europa congress centre was efficient exhibition hall technology and tailoring the first convention building worldwide to be systems operation to our actual needs. The utilisaawarded DGNB Gold Certification – a new standard tion of innovative technologies has also allowed us for whose development Messe Frankfurt shares to make our own contribution to sustainable power responsibility. The DGNB certification process looks generation. For example, as part of a public-private at a building‘s entire life-cycle. partnership we have been operating photovoltaic (*Preliminary figures for 2013) Conserving resources Dealing responsibly with resources includes waste generated at the Frankfurt exhibition grounds dedicated efforts to separate and recycle waste, each year is fed back into the material cycle. and we ensure that as much as 90 percent of the Optimised mobility and logistics One of the foundations of our environmentally charge, while an integrated logistics concept helps friendly mobility is our location, which features reduce the volume of traffic relating to our events. optimum transportation connections. In addition, We also offer a barrier-free access and connection practical “combination tickets” allow exhibitors network that provides mobility-impaired visitors and visitors to use public transportation free of with the freedom of action they need. 7 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Being an employer entails responsibility Combining working and family life Messe Frankfurt sets great store by good working been able to take advantage of an emergency conditions for all of its employees. We want to childcare service that steps in if their regular ensure that our staff enjoy working for us, so we childcare becomes unavailable or schools are strive to provide them with the best possible closed at short notice. Furthermore, since 2012 support. At our Frankfurt base we work with employees have also been able to take advantage external partners to deliver professional assistance of professional and confidential consultations as that helps people combine working and family life. part of the Employee Assistance Programme. Since 2008, for example, working parents have Fit through health management Messe Frankfurt’s occupational health promotion and seminars to help people quit smoking. “Health programme “Messe Vital” helps to create a healthy days” are scheduled on a regular basis to give workplace – through targeted health promotion employees an opportunity to obtain comprehenefforts and the provision of information, consultasive information and to try out a range of different tion and concrete services. The services offered programmes. 2014 will see the third “health day”, under this initiative are expanded on a regular and the focus this time will be on: “How can I stay basis and include such things as preventive fit and healthy?” medical programmes, massages, back exercises Successful basic and advanced training Basic and advanced training plays a crucial role at grammes started their training with us. One of the Messe Frankfurt. We currently have 26 trainees highlights for all trainees is the organisation of the who are learning the ropes in a variety of different annual company party, which offers them the jobs. During the reporting period, four commercial chance to demonstrate their newly acquired skills. trainees and five students in work-study proThe Messe Frankfurt Group against corruption Messe Frankfurt works actively to prevent corrupto increase its efforts in this area during the reporttion. Clear and binding rules and employee training ing period, introducing a Compliance Management serve as a reliable means of preventing corruption System that aims to adherence to legal requirewhile providing employees with the opportunity to ments, contractual agreements and internal comcontact an external ombudsman if illegal methods pany guidelines. The Group-wide programme is to are suspected. Additionally, all new employees prevent compliance violations while allowing us to participate in a course of training that raises their quickly identify any that do occur so that we can awareness of this issue. Messe Frankfurt continued respond in an appropriate and transparent manner. 8 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Raising awareness Sustainability needs impulses Our trade fairs are drivers of sustainability in action: with special exhibitions, workshops, presentations and publications, we inform visitors and exhibitors of relevant developments and challenges in their industries. In this way, we are able to serve as a platform for all aspects of sustainability, throwing a spotlight on this important issue. Driving environmental technologies forward Investments in modern environmental technologies mental fairs covers the gamut from recycling and are increasing sharply worldwide, as they are waste, water and energy management to renewable essential for the lasting protection of the natural energies and sustainable building materials. resources we need. In the highly innovative field of Messe Frankfurt further expanded its efforts in the green technology, Messe Frankfurt offers a growing environmental sector during the reporting period, range of international trade fairs, with eight events as Watertech India 2013 provided impetus to the exin three countries promoting the global transfer of pansion of India‘s water management sector for the technology and knowledge in this area. This offers first time. Thanks to the tremendous response, manufacturers, users and the political sphere an Watertech India 2014 is being expanded with the opportunity to discuss pressing issues of sustainaddition of new exhibition areas for waste manageable environmental management and develop ment, renewable energies, air pollution control, solutions. Messe Frankfurt’s portfolio of environnoise control and recycling. Sustainable event management Sustainability is also playing a larger role at Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. The events organised by Messe Frankfurt‘s subsidiaorganiser‘s sustainability efforts extend beyond the ries. RailLog Korea, a trade fair organised by event‘s focus on environmentally friendly transporMesse Frankfurt Korea Ltd., is Asia‘s most importation systems to the organisation of the event tant international event for trade and networking in itself – including the utilisation of energy-saving the railway industry. The event is officially supported heating and air conditioning systems, green by UNESCAP, the United Nations Economic and electricity and the elimination of carpeting. 9 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 The new “Zukunft Lebensräume” congress trade fair Demographic change is having an impact on construction, housing and healthcare sectors come society, and with the new “Zukunft Lebensräume” together here alongside Light + Building to find out congress fair for the construction, housing and about new solutions and exchange ideas. At the healthcare sectors, Messe Frankfurt is showcasing accompanying trade exhibition, manufacturers solutions – with an event that focuses on the will be presenting successful concepts and best consequences of this change for the construction practice examples for senior living. and housing sectors. Representatives of the “Green Salon” – a special showcase for the hairdressing and beauty sector The demand for fairly-produced ecological products case, which debuted as part of “Hair and Beauty” that conserve resources is also experiencing in May 2014 in Frankfurt am Main, is devoted to continuous growth in the hairdressing and beauty the issue of sustainability in the hairdressing and sector, with health concerns playing a particularly cosmetics sector and features a select group of large role. The new “Green Salon” special showproducts which satisfy specific ecological criteria. “Ecostyle” trade fair for sustainable consumer goods There is a growing market for green products in demonstrate that the submitted products have the home, office, leisure time and gift areas, and been produced responsibly in accordance with Messe Frankfurt has responded to this developthese criteria will be permitted to exhibit. ment with Ecostyle, a European trade fair for Messe Frankfurt successfully launched the event sustainable consumer goods. in 2013, when more than 5,000 trade visitors What sets Ecostyle apart is the fact that all of the visited the stands of 77 exhibitors to find out about products to be exhibited are evaluated in advance sustainable trends during the three-day event. In by an independent advisory council in accordance addition, presentations, panel discussions and with five criteria: minimal ecological footprint, a workshops addressed the issue of “sustainability high level of product quality, efficient utilisation of in retail”, illuminating particular aspects such as materials and energy, positive social and cultural the sharing economy. Ecostyle will be taking place impact and outstanding transparency. Only those again in 2014, when it will be extended from three companies and organisations which are able to to four days. Ecostyle | Source Messe Frankfurt Exhibition GmbH / Pietro Sutera 10 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Sustainability for the textile industry Sustainability is becoming ever more important in the textile industry, resulting in the development of more and more new materials, manufacturing processes and production technologies that point the way towards a greener future. As an international trendsetter, Messe Frankfurt provides a comprehensive platform for these themes in the form of trade fairs, trend forums, seminars and awards that honour efforts to foster sustainability in the textile sector. Europe‘s largest platform for ecological and fair fashion Since 2011, Messe Frankfurt has been organising the in January 2014, the event switched to the sustainGreenshowroom and Ethical Fashion Show Berlin able stand construction offered by Messe Frankfurt‘s twice each year for the Berlin Fashion Week. subsidiary Fairconstruction. The individual system The Greenshowroom presents exclusive, sustainable modules are long-lasting, can be reused and are design from the fields of high fashion and accessories, made from FSC-certified wood on site. Most of the while Ethical Fashion Show Berlin offers “eco-fair” materials used are produced in Germany, while street and casual wear. The events themselves are energy-saving LEDs are used to reduce electricity also becoming increasingly environmentally aware: consumption. Upcycling and intensified efforts to promote up-and-coming talent Manufacturers of apparel, home textiles and home 2013 to honour new talent in order to raise awarefurnishings are increasingly confronting the issue ness of this creative principle. This prize, which is of how best to practice conservation in the use and worth 5,000 euros in all, honours original upcycling re-use of materials. This has led to the development creations for the interior and is awarded to the of a new concept: upcycling, i.e. the use of students and graduates of design schools. In 2015 “waste” to produce new products. As part of Heimtextil will be opening this competition to Heimtextil, the trade fair for home and contract international contestants for the first time by textiles, Messe Frankfurt has been presenting the inviting European universities to take part. “Young Creations Award: Upcycling” prize since Toaster Fire-extinguisher | Source Messe Frankfurt Exhibition GmbH / Jens Liebchen Upcycling Award | Source Messe Frankfurt Exhibition GmbH / Jens Liebchen 11 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 Sustainability at Light + Building Messe Frankfurt organises some 50 events worldwide that are grouped together in the “Technology” business segment, and it should be no surprise that energy efficiency and intelligent energy management to ensure sustainable use of resources are a key focus. These issues have been dealt with by leading international trade fairs such as Light + Building for a number of years now. The motto of Light + Building 2014 was “Explore Technology for Life – the best energy is the energy that is not consumed”. The “Building Future Award” The Building Future Award has been presented as society. In conjunction with the innovations showpart of Light + Building since 2012. This award is cased at this leading international trade fair, the sponsored by the Federal Ministry of Economics award helps to focus the attention of the public and and Energy (BMWi) and is presented by of the media on projects promoting a sustainable Messe Frankfurt, the German Electrical and future. The 2014 Building Future Award was given Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI) and the to the renowned climate researcher Prof. Helga German Association of the Electrical and Information Kromp-Kolb, an Austrian scientist who has served Technology Trades (ZVEH). Every two years, this this cause in the field of environmental meteorology, award is given to an outstanding public figure particularly with regard to the dispersion of polwhose scientific research or commitment to society lutants in the atmosphere and climate change. has helped foster the sustainable development of Relevant and attractive special exhibitions For Light + Building 2014, Messe Frankfurt expan“E-House” offered a demonstration of how intellided two of its successful special exhibitions in gent energy management can be implemented at order to highlight the development and application the consumer level: the “energy-saving power of sustainable technologies. The special “Smart station” provided a realistic and up-to-date depicPowered Building – Your building in the smart grid” tion of how the move towards sustainable energy exhibition showcased technologies for intelligent sources can function in actual practice and how it and efficient energy management in smart grids – is already possible to combine energy efficiency so that buildings not only use energy, but generate with increased convenience, security and safety. and store it as well. In addition, the ZVEH 50 TECHNOLOGY EVENTS Luminale Naxoshalle | Source Messe Frankfurt Exhibition GmbH / Jochen Günther 12 Global Compact 2013 / 2014 The UN Global Compact’s ten principles Human rights 01: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 02: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Environment 07: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 08: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 09: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour 03: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 04: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 05: the effective abolition of child labour; and 06: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Tel. +49 69 75 75-56 61 csr@messefrankfurt.com www.messefrankfurt.com V.i.S.d.P. Kai Hattendorf Redaktion Corinna Züge
