Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 2014 PREFACE BY THE CEO The Vaillant Group combines its sustainability activities to form a strategic programme – S.E.E.D.S. This involves setting binding, measurable targets, deriving specific measures and continuously reviewing the results obtained in relation to four fields of focus: Environment, Employees, Development & Products, and Society. All activities are Group-wide and transparent. In view of the above, our membership of the United Nations Global Compact represents a conscious step towards increased transparency and visible corporate responsibility. The initiative, founded by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, aims to strengthen the social commitment of businesses by inviting them to affirm a catalogue of basic values. The Vaillant Group is explicitly committed to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and undertakes to continue fostering and supporting them in its sphere of influence. We report annually on our progress in implementing the Global Compact in our day-to-day business in the form of a Communication on Progress. Furthermore, we will detail significant developments in the implementation of the Ten Principles in the Vaillant Group Sustainability Report. Remscheid, 14 October 2014 Dr Carsten Voigtländer, CEO ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this Communication on Progress encompasses the Vaillant Group’s third year of Global Compact membership, from 15 October 2013 to 14 October 2014. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • We source 100% of our Support of human rights sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing Principle 2: • Supplier management • Implementation of supplier that they comply with the Non-complicity in human system (pre-selection of audits on the basis of Global Compact’s rights abuses suppliers, assessment of questionnaires on social principles. The target suppliers, purchasing terms criteria which had originally been and conditions, contractual aimed for by 2020 has conditions) therefore already been • Vaillant Group Social achieved. Accountability Policy • Approx. 300 audits conducted in the supply chain. LABOUR STANDARDS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 3: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • We source 100% of our Upholding freedom of sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing association and recognition • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who of the right to collective the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing bargaining • Supplier management • Supplier audits that they comply with the system (pre-selection of • At the main sites of the Global Compact’s suppliers, assessment of Vaillant Group, we are principles. The target which Principle 4: suppliers, purchasing terms bound by collective had originally been aimed Elimination of forced and and conditions) agreements. Where for by 2020 has therefore compulsory labour minimum wages exist, they already been achieved. are not undercut by us in • Approx. 300 audits remuneration. conducted in the supply Principle 5: • The Group has about 70% chain. Abolition of child labour of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, in Germany about 80%. Principle 6: • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Continuous communication Elimination of discrimination Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, campaign addressing all entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s employees integrity, passion Group-wide values • HR measures adopted • Vaillant supports the Fair towards implementation of Company initiative, which the Group values requires members to (management training, commit to treating interns employee/team workshops) fairly. • Trend survey conducted again in cooperation with Great Place to Work ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7: • Multi-site certification • Annual environmental • 6 Vaillant Group sites are Precautionary approach to pursuant to EN ISO 14001 audits part of a multi-site environmental challenges and OHSAS 18001 • Binding environmental certification, while three are • S.E.E.D.S. strategic targets to be agreed and being prepared for sustainability programme degree of target certification • Vaillant Group achievement to be • 27 system audits Environmental Policy measured conducted • Group-wide sustainability • All sustainability indicators • Site-specific standards for targets for 2020 in the to be incorporated into a reusable packaging defined Environment field of focus: central reporting tool, the • Realisation of energy 25% reduction in CO₂ Vaillant Group efficiency projects at a emissions, 20% increase in Sustainability Scorecard range of locations (e.g. energy efficiency, 20% cut • Waste reduction: Expanded conversion to LED lighting in water consumption and use of reusable packaging in all German customer waste for production materials forums; use of waste heat • Group-wide sustainability • Energy efficiency: New from the powder spray targets for 2020 in the heating systems in our coating facility in Vaillant Development & Products buildings to be run only on Group’s Remscheid site for field of focus: highly efficient condensing heating shower water in the 80% of our sales revenues devices, CHPs and locker rooms; conversion of to be generated with highly technologies based on two thirds of the logistics efficient products; a 15% renewable energies. providers TechnoCargo reduction in greenhouse Existing systems to be fleet in Germany, the latter gases emitted by our successively modernised. being a joint venture of product portfolio; 15% • Sustainability standards to Vaillant Group and Fiege, increase in material be integrated into Vaillant to the emission standard efficiency Group processes. Euro 6; • Process integration of • Consideration of nationwide introduction of environmental issues sustainability criteria within recycling paper in the scope of the Germany, Group-wide Sustainable Building communication campaign Guideline on the responsible use of paper and printing resources ; Group-wide communication campaign in the sites on awareness raising for resources and environment protection • The Vaillant Group site in GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Belper (GB) has won the “National EEF/ENEr-G Sustainable Manufacturing Award 2013” for being the most sustainable production site in Great Britain • Sustainability issues further incorporated into Vaillant Group process map. • Improvements in key environmental indicators (see key indicators section in the current Sustainability Report) Principle 8: Promoting • Group-wide sustainability • Suppliers to provide a • We source 100% of our environmental responsibility targets for 2020 in the written commitment to standard purchasing Environment field of focus: adhere to environmental volume from suppliers who 25% reduction in CO₂ standards have confirmed in writing emissions, 20% increase in • Supplier audits that they comply with the energy efficiency, 20% cut • Environmental Global Compact’s in water consumption and responsibility taken into principles. The target which waste account to a greater extent had originally been aimed • Group-wide sustainability when selecting suppliers for by 2020 has therefore targets for 2020 in the and service providers. already been achieved. Development & Products • Sustainability standards to • Approx. 300 audits field of focus: be incorporated into the conducted in the supply 80% of our sales revenues Group Market Process chain. to be generated with highly • Group-wide internal • Brochure “Responsibility as efficient products; a 15% competition for the a principle”, whose purpose reduction in greenhouse S.E.E.D.S. Award is to communicate our gases emitted by our • Sustainability to be a commitment to product portfolio; 15% compulsory part of sustainability, reissued and increase in material vocational training and of distributed via customer efficiency Corporate Basics induction forums, sales partners and • Group Market Process training for new employees industry fairs • Vaillant Group Corporate • Vaillant Group is involved • We have worked with Responsibility Framework in a range of initiatives and installers to hold workshops networks whose purpose is on sustainable corporate to work towards governance. GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS responsible management Support provided to of natural resources. For environmental community example, the company is a projects at a range of partner organisation of company locations German sustainability (examples: fitting conference, “Deutscher up-to-the-minute heating Nachhaltigkeitstag”, and is technology in the SOS a member of the German Children’s Villages in Association of France, Hungary, Romania, Environmental Poland, China, Belgium Management (B.A.U.M. and Croatia in line with a e.V.) and of the Group-wide strategic Sustainability Leadership partnership) Forum convened by B.A.U.M. e.V. / Centre for Sustainability Management at Leuphana University, Lüneburg. • The Vaillant Group is a strategic partner of SOS Children’s Villages International Principle 9: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Expansion of our portfolio • In 2013, the majority – 61% Development and diffusion sustainability programme of high-efficiency products – of the Vaillant Group’s of environmentally-friendly • Vaillant Group product • Training to be provided for product sales revenues technologies strategy focusing on highinstallers were generated with highefficiency technologies, efficiency technologies and synced-up systems and renewable energy systems. renewable energies • Following extensive field • Group-wide sustainability tests of the first walltargets for 2020 in the mounted fuel cell heating Development & Products system, Vaillant is now field of focus: manufacturing the 80% of our sales revenues technology in preproduction to be generated with highly series. In 2014, Vaillant will efficient products; a 15% start the Europe-wide onreduction in greenhouse road test ene.field with 140 gases emitted by our appliances of the latest product portfolio; 15% generation. increase in material • Ongoing training on GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS efficiency environmentally-friendly • Group Market Process technologies for partner installers. • The jury of the German Sustainability Award has voted the strategic sustainability programme S.E.E.D.S. as one of the Top 3 in the category “Germany’s most sustainable future strategies”. ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2013/2014 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10: • Vaillant Group Corporate • Group-wide compliance • Compliance training Action against corruption Governance Codex training in the field of sessions conducted in the • Vaillant Group “Codex of anti-corruption (partially still field of anti-corruption: (8 Behaviour” planned) sessions with 129 • Vaillant Group • Application of the Group attendees in Germany in Anti-Corruption Directive Fraud Response Directive 2013; in 2014, 21 sessions • Vaillant Group Fraud with 312 attendees; Response Directive in other countries: 8 sessions with 108 attendees in 2013; in 2014 , 27 sessions with 394 attendees) • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Vaillant Group Spirit: Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, Group-wide communication entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s campaign addressing all integrity, passion Group-wide values employees • HR measures adopted continuously towards implementation of the Group values
