Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 Full Version Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 Full Version Contents Editorial Policy 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO 3 Sysmex at a Glance 5 Corporate Philosophy 7 Highlight1 9 Highlight2 11 Highlight3 13 Overview of CSR Initiatives 15 Global Topics 16 Management 25 Involvement with Customers 35 Involvement with Employees 42 Involvement with Business Partners 51 Involvement with Shareholders 54 Corporate Citizenship Activities 56 Promoting a Healthy Society 57 Cooperating with Local Communities 59 Environmental Conservation Activities 61 Environmental Management 62 Environmental Plans and Performance 64 Environmental Data 71 External Evaluation 72 Guideline Comparative Table 77 Independent Opinion 88 1 Editorial Policy Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” in the hopes of communicating its approaches and activities concerning corporate social responsibility (CSR) to stakeholders and facilitating dialog with them. This report is available as a full version and in digest form, as well as on the Company’s website. Informational Content of Each Media Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 (Full Version), CSR Site: Comprehensive information Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 (Digest Version): Excerpts of key information only Organizations covered Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both in Japan and abroad). In this report, “Sysmex” refers to the Sysmex Group as a whole. “Sysmex Corporation” refers to the Company on a stand-alone basis. Period covered Primarily fiscal 2013 (from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014). Some activities conducted outside this period are also included. Guidelines referenced The Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 ed.) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)'s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Edition 3.1 Date of publication August 2014 (previous version:September 2013) Inquiries about this report CSR Promotion Department, Corporate Business Planning Division, Sysmex Corporation 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan Tel +81-78-265-0500, Fax +81-78-265-0524 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO We Aim to Help Resolve Global Healthcare Issues and Build Trust and Confidence among Our Stakeholders. We strive to contribute to society through business prevention, early-stage detection and the determination of activities throughout the world. treatment methods. We strive to swiftly address these Since our founding in 1968, we have created a wide spectrum changes in our environment and respond to people’s desire of products and services in the in-vitro diagnostics ﬁeld to remain healthy. based on advanced technologies. Fiscal year 2013 marked In ﬁscal year 2013, we welcomed two new members into Sysmex’s 45th anniversary, and the Company’s products the Group—Germany’s Inostics GmbH (currently, Sysmex are currently used in more than 170 countries around the Inostics GmbH) and Partec GmbH—as part of our eﬀort to world. In recent years, the environment surrounding the continue developing and growing in line with the changing healthcare business has changed dramatically. In emerging healthcare markets and contribute to the resolution of markets, healthcare needs are growing against a backdrop various healthcare issues. Sysmex is working toward the of economic development and expanding populations. realization of personalized medicine: providing healthcare Meanwhile, in developed countries birthrates are falling, optimized for individual patients, by combining our own populations are aging and attitudes toward health are diagnostic technologies and networks with Inostics’ highly growing more diverse. In this environment, every year sensitive technology for detecting cancer genes in the blood, testing plays an increasingly important role in illness and the expertise and development capabilities of Partec, 3 a pioneer in ﬂow cytometry* technology. Partec also has a forest land where the ecological balance had declined, as strong presence in the area of testing for infectious diseases, part of our overall forest management activities we have such as HIV and malaria. Going forward, Sysmex will leverage been clearing away underbrush, thinning the trees and its network to contribute to the advancement of healthcare making trails. This is part of an ongoing initiative aimed at in emerging markets and developing countries. In addition, making it easy for local residents and others to come into Sysmex and Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., have jointly contact with wildlife. As a company involved in healthcare, established Medicaroid Corporation to conduct marketing we also contribute to a healthy society through sports. We activities with a view to commercializing medical robots. have been special sponsor of the Kobe Marathon since its In accordance with our mission, “Shaping the inauguration. The marathon was held for the third time in advancement of healthcare,” as stated in the Sysmex Way, November 2013, and some 300 Group employees and their the corporate philosophy for the Sysmex Group, through family members provided support, volunteering and our business activities Sysmex will contribute to a healthy encouraging the 20,000 runners that participated in the life for people around the world. event. We will support the fourth Kobe Marathon in November * Flow cytometry: method involving the ﬂow dispersion of minute particles and 2014, invigorating the Kobe community. the use of laser light to optically analyze minute ﬂows. Used primarily to observe individual cells. We have launched a new Group Mid-Term We are taking part in a host of activities designed to Management Plan, and are shoring up our build trust and confidence among our stakeholders. foundations for the future. The Sysmex Way emphasizes the importance we place on Sysmex launched the new Group Mid-Term Management building trust and conﬁdence among all our stakeholders. Plan in April 2013 with the goal of maintaining our high In April 2013, Sysmex established the Mid-Term CSR Plan level of growth and further enhancing proﬁtability. based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global The plan is aimed at building a foundation for future Compact, which the Company joined in 2011, and the ISO growth by reinforcing our business promotion structures 26000 international standards for social responsibility. according to the business unit structure, continuously Under this plan, we are making steady progress toward investing in R&D and strengthening production capacity by fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility. improving production bases. By transforming to a corporate In ﬁscal year 2013, we also took a signiﬁcant step culture that emphasizes speed and execution, the Group forward in improving our logistics process, which we had Mid-Term Management Plan aims to propel Sysmex forward been working on for some time. We reviewed our product toward the next corporate stage. packaging materials, localized procurement of raw materials for reagents, established a new warehouse, and are making Sysmex will continue working to achieve the sustainable use of the local Port of Kobe. As well as boosting distribution development of the Group and the global community. We eﬃciency and reducing costs, these moves to reconﬁgure would like to ask our stakeholders for their continued our global logistics structure and achieve overall optimization support and understanding of all our endeavors. help to curtail CO2 emissions. In addition to business-related initiatives, in the city of July 2014 Ono, Hyogo Prefecture, where we operate a reagent factory, Hisashi Ietsugu we have created the new “Sysmex Forest.” To rejuvenate Chairman and CEO Note: In this report, “Sysmex” refers to the “Sysmex Group,” whereas “Sysmex Corporation” indicates the company on a non-consolidated basis. 4 Sysmex at a Glance Sysmex is a Global Provider of Diagnostics Products and Services. In-vitro diagnostic testing of patient blood and urine samples plays an important role in conﬁrming a patient’s state of health or determining a course of treatment. Sysmex supports healthy lives worldwide by providing a variety of in-vitro diagnostic instruments and reagents in more than 170 countries in an integrated system from research and development through production, sales and after-sales support. Integrated System from R&D to Production, Sales and After-sales Support R&D Production Sales After-sales Support Creating valuable healthcare Ensuring high quality Providing products Responding accurately testing and diagnostic and a stable product supply and services to more than to each and every inquiry technologies 170 countries Global Network Providing a Variety of Products and Services in More than 170 Countries EMEA (Europe, the Middle East, Africa) Subsidiaries: 32 Americas China Number of employees: 1,488 Subsidiaries: 6 Subsidiaries: 4 Number of employees: 796 Number of employees: 316 Japan Sysmex Corporation Subsidiaries: 6 Number of employees: 2,344 Asia Pacific Subsidiaries: 12 Sales R&D Number of employees: 457 Production Regional (As of March 31, 2014) Headquarters 5 Sysmex products are in use near you. 1 Hospitals Our products are used in hematology and other fields in outpatient/in-hospital checkups and complete physical examinations to discover changes or abnormalities in organs CS-5100 HISCL-5000 RD-100i and systems. Automated Blood Coagulation Analyzer Automated Immunoassay System Gene Ampliﬁcation Detector 3 1 3 XN-Series XN-2000 Automated Hematology Analyzer 1 2 1 XN-Series Reagents 2 Animal 3 Sports Training Hospitals Our ASTRIM FIT is used for Our products are used in daily training programs and hematological testing of nutritional maintenance to dogs, cats and other animals. regularly check the estimated hemoglobin levels of athletes in training pocH-100iV Diﬀ programs in gyms and school ASTRIM FIT Automated Hematology Analyzer sports teams. Health Monitoring Analyzer 6 Corporate Philosophy Corporate Philosophy Core Behaviors To our Customers We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers' true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. To our Employees We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. To our Business Partners We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the soundness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. To Society We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. 1 2 3 7 Holding Value Quest (VQ) Activities to Put the “Sysmex Way” into Practice throughout the Group VQ45 provided a forum for devoting extensive Group employees around the world participated thought to this objective, strengthening our earnestly and wisely. practice of the corporate philosophy. In addition to Japan, Group employees from around the world Sysmex inaugurated Value Quest (VQ) activities in 2008, participated in VQ45 and propelled the activities forward. commemorating the Company’s 40th anniversary. These Members of Sysmex Korea, which joined the Sysmex Group in activities are aimed at enhancing corporate value by putting April 2013, participated enthusiastically. Employees from into action the “Sysmex Way,” the corporate philosophy of the various divisions gathered at business oﬃces throughout Sysmex Group. VQ provides an opportunity for employees to Japan, taking this as an opportunity to meet and discuss freely. think about independently, and discuss with each other, activities This structure evolved into cross-functional proposals across that will help to put the “Sysmex Way” into practice. In response departments, centering on young employees. An internal to questions from the chairman and CEO, various ideas are social networking service (SNS) was used to exchange opinions received from employees around the world, who hold discussions across long distances and organizational boundaries. on these themes over the course of several months. The VQ45 presentations were held in October 2013 at In ﬁscal 2013, the 45th anniversary of the Company’s Technopark, our R&D center, to share individual teams’ ideas, establishment, we promoted VQ45 activities that aimed at activities and results throughout the Group. Numerous making every individual in the Group responsive to various proposals were announced during the presentations, which environmental changes and to thoroughly reviewing his or her were attended by some 600 employees, including those from tasks and role in the Group and putting the resulting ideas into Group companies overseas. In one proposal, employees of practice. In Japan, VQ45 was themed on “redeﬁning operations, Sysmex India suggested providing inexpensively priced products reviewing work.” The emphasis was on identifying work that for India that are tailored to local needs. The Regulatory Aﬀairs required redeﬁnition and review, and promoting action from & Quality Assurance division proposed disseminating quality the three perspectives of “knowing and making known,” information improvements throughout the Company. The Supply “discarding” and “changing,” with the aim of providing maximum Chain Management (SCM) division made a proposal to lower value to our stakeholders. costs and reduce worker hours by improving parts packaging. Each of these proposals received an award. Based on one proposal that had been made to promote social contribution Theme of VQ45 (Japan) activities, we introduced the Social Contribution Point System Redefining Operations, Reviewing Work in April 2014. Other events in addition to VQ45 were held to “Knowing and Making Known” Internal and External Changes commemorate the 45th anniversary of the Company’s through the Sharing of Information, Exchanges of Opinions, founding. These included Open Sysmex—tours for employees’ and Deliberation families—and Festa 45, a commemorative event. Going forward, Sysmex plans to continue putting the “Sysmex Way” “Discarding” Unnecessary Operations and Rules into practice throughout the Group through VQ45 and by “Changing” to Exceed Stakeholder Expectations promoting active communications that transcend regional and organizational boundaries. Photo 1 2 3 4 : VQ45 presentations Photo 5 : Open Sysmex Photo 6 : Festa 45 4 5 6 8 Highlight 1 The Advancement of Healthcare By Welcoming Two German Companies into the Group, Sysmex Makes New Inroads into Personalized Medicine and Contributes to Enhancing the Treatment of Infectious Diseases in Emerging and Developing Countries Contributing to the Resolution of its eﬀorts to meet increasingly diverse global healthcare needs. Global Healthcare Issues Inostics (currently, Sysmex Inostics) possesses highly sensitive In recent years, the healthcare market has been characterized technologies for determining cancer genes in the blood, while by graying populations in advanced countries. Meanwhile, in Partec is a pioneer in ﬂow cytometry*1 technology and boasts emerging markets populations are increasing, triggering a a strong presence in research domains and in the market for growing prevalence of infectious disease. These countries are detecting infectious diseases such as HIV and malaria. also working to meet growing healthcare needs in line with their economic development. Aiming to Optimize Treatment for Individual Progress in genetic analysis technology, which is used to Cancer Patients analyze the risk of disease incidence, facilitates the selection Sysmex Inostics possesses BEAMing technology*2 for detecting of treatment methods and drug development to meet an to a high degree of sensitivity abnormal expressions and individual’s physical and genetic condition. This technology is mutations in genes that are the cause of cancer in blood. used in “personalized medicine”—key words in the healthcare Compared to the conventional method of testing surgically ﬁeld. In emerging markets and developing countries, demand removed specimens, this technology requires only blood. In is growing for compact and inexpensive diagnostic instruments addition to reducing the impact on patients, this method has the that contribute to a broad-ranging provision of healthcare advantage of allowing multiple tests to be conducted for the services, as such instruments can help to address infectious monitoring of treatment methods. Conventional approaches also diseases and improve public health. presented the problems of testing only a portion of the removed In line with its Group corporate philosophy of “Shaping specimen, as well as mistaken results due to diﬃculties in the Advancement of Healthcare,” in October 2013 Sysmex removing some types of cancer specimens, but now highly welcomed two German companies into the Group as part of sensitive hematological testing can be used to determine the Sysmex Inostics Ultrahighly sensitive technology for the detection of cancer genes Promotion of the development of companion diagnostic drugs for cancer Company Proﬁle Sysmex Inostics GmbH (Headquarters: Hamburg, Germany) Established: 2008; Employees: Approximately 40 (As of December 31, 2013) Contributions to Testing in a Growing Number of Fields Currently Screening Confirmative diagnosis Selection of treatment method Follow-up testing Helping to Select the Best Cancer Treatment Method As technology advances, ﬁelds of diagnosis grow In the Future more detailed and sophisticated for Each Individual Selection of Monitoring for Risk Risk treatment method Assessment Monitoring Confirmative recurrence and Companion diagnostic drugs are expected to help in determining whether according to diagnosis patient and disease malignant a treatment drug will be eﬀective for a patient and whether the risk of Screening characteristics transformation side eﬀects is high. This can help in selecting courses of Risk diagnosis Companion Monitoring treatment or drugs that are appropriate for individual patients. diagnostics 9 Stakeholder Comment We are a non-proﬁt consortium serving more than 2,000 HIV+ patients. The miniPOC’s promise of portability and large volume of patient service between calibrations is perfect for us to bring care closer to our patients, especially mothers and young children in the villages. Our successful piloting of miniPOC has garnered great interest from health oﬃcials in Njombe as well as in the region of Tanga. For the future, we would like to explore a number of possibilities with Partec. Mr. Royal Orr, Highlands Hope entire cancerous state. Inostics has used this technology to monitoring of patients suﬀering from the world’s three leading develop a business centered on its OncoBEAM® lab assay service. infectious diseases: HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. By working with leading pharmaceutical companies, Sysmex Compact and portable, its instruments can be used in plans to aggressively pursue the development of companion environments where medical treatment facilities are lacking, diagnostic drugs, which are seen as the key to personalized and the reagents they use cost only a fraction of those oﬀered medicine for cancer. Tests employing these drugs analyze by competitors. To provide easy access to testing, the company target proteins and genes using specimens such as blood that is rolling out mobile laboratories in various regions. Particularly are derived from individual patients. As a result, companion in Africa, Partec accounts for a major share of the market in diagnostic drugs are expected to help in determining whether testing for HIV/AIDS. a treatment drug will be eﬀective for a patient and whether Going forward, Sysmex will leverage its global network to the risk of side eﬀects is high. By adding these technologies to increase recognition and adoption of Partec’s products in Asia and its own proprietary technologies, Sysmex aims to achieve Central and South America as well as Africa. In this manner, we success in personalized medicine. are working to help improve healthcare environments in various emerging markets and developing countries. Sysmex is taking on Working to Popularize Simple and Inexpensive the challenge of moving to a new stage of Group development Testing for HIV/AIDS to contribute to a healthy life for people around the world. Partec is a pioneer in the ﬂow cytometry (FCM) method, in *1 Flow cytometry: method involving the ﬂow dispersion of minute particles and the use of laser light to optically analyze minute ﬂows. Used primarily to 1968 becoming the ﬁrst company in the world to commercialize observe individual cells. research equipment employing this method. Products that Partec *2 BEAMing technology: An acronym for “Bead, Emulsion, Ampliﬁcation, and Magnetics,” this gene analysis method combines digital PCR (ultrahighly has developed for emerging markets and developing countries sensitive PCR) and ﬂow cytometry technologies for blood-based detection using this technology have contributed to the treatment and of minute genetic mutations. Global Number of People Infected with HIV/AIDS, Partec Number of AIDS Patients Eastern Europe and Central Asia Compact and portable blee 1.4 million instruments to test for Western and Central Europe North America 1.4 million infectious diseases 900,000 East Asia 830,000 North Africa and Caribbean Deployment of mobile the Middle East 230,000 laboratories in areas 300,000 South and Southeast Asia 4.0 million South America lacking infrastructure Oceania 1.4 million Company Proﬁle 53,000 Sub-Saharan Africa Partec GmbH (Headquarters: Görlitz, Germany) Established: 1967; Employees: Approximately 180 (as of December 31, 2013) 23.5 million Source: UNAIDS 2012 Report on the Global AIDS Epidemic Contributing to Expansion in the Treatment of Infectious Diseases in Emerging Markets and Developing Countries The prevalence of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in emerging markets and developing countries is a global issue. Making simple and inexpensive testing instruments more commonplace will help to prevent and treat such infectious diseases. 10 Highlight 2 Improving Business Processes Launching a Project to Review Our Logistics Processes and Systems from a Global Perspective, Promote Their Efficiency and Reduce Their Environmental Impact Promoting Gradual Improvements to Logistics departments, materials departments, and factories. on a Global Level * Eco-Vision 2020: The Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan. Sets targets to be The environment in which Sysmex operates is changing every achieved by ﬁscal 2020 in the areas of “environmental consciousness in product life cycle processes” and “environmental consciousness at business oﬃces.” year, as healthcare investments rise in emerging markets and environmental problems become an increasingly serious issue for society. Against this backdrop, Sysmex’s product areas and Reconﬁguring Our Global Logistics Structure to sales regions continue to expand, prompting the need to Lower CO2 Emissions review our logistics processes and systems in order to provide In the past, we used air freight when transporting some increasingly diverse solutions. refrigerated reagents overseas. By shifting to ship transport, In April 2012, we launched a project to shorten supply we have succeeded in substantially reducing CO2 emissions. chain lead times by reconﬁguring the global logistics structure We have also decreased lead time signiﬁcantly through the for overall optimization and introducing process reform. Since local sourcing of some accessories for instruments. This move then, we have gradually revised our logistics structure and has also lowered CO2 emissions by shortening transport moved forward with packaging reforms, making progress in distances. In addition to accessories for equipment, in the future the overall reconﬁguration of logistics. we plan to develop local sourcing of reagent raw materials, Going beyond logistics reform, project initiatives are also rendering CO2 reduction eﬀorts even more eﬀective. intended to reduce environmental impact and serve as an Enhancing our loading simulations has enabled us to adjust eﬀective means to achieve the objectives Sysmex has spelled the timing of product shipments, increase our loading ratio in out in its Eco-Vision 2020.* Consequently, we are moving shipping containers and decrease the number of shipments. ahead in a staged manner with comprehensive measures that Speciﬁcally, in ﬁscal 2013 we achieved a peak-time loading involve aﬃliated companies overseas, as well as logistics ratio of 55%, up 6 percentage points from the 49% recorded Activities Related to Curtailing CO2 Emissions Shifting the mode of overseas transport of certain refrigerated reagents from air to ship freight Procuring locally some accessories for instruments By reinforcing loading simulations, adjusting product shipment timing and raising the shipping container loading ratio Example of ImproImprovements in the Loading Ratio Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 49 4 9% 55% Shipping container loading ratio (at peak) up 6 percentage points 11 Stakeholder Comment The logistics of product delivery can be likened to “distribution arteries.” Conversely, collection and disposal compare to “venous distribution.” By switching transport modes and boosting the container loading ratio, we are working to make this arterial ﬂow more eﬃcient. At the same time, we pay attention to the processes of collection and disposal following use by reviewing package sizes and packaging materials. We plan to continue with eﬀorts to reduce our environmental impact from a global perspective. Tomoe Katayama, Vice President, Logistics, Sysmex Corporation in ﬁscal 2012. In addition to improving logistics processes, we are moving A warehouse is part of i-Square, our new factory in the city forward with the revision of package designs. We have already of Kakogawa, Hyogo Prefecture, scheduled to commence introduced steel packaging for some products to prevent operations in August 2014. Directly linking the factory and damage during shipment. For shipments in Japan, we have begun warehouse will increase the eﬃciency of our logistics structure. employing reusable packaging, which we plan to gradually This approach will also create a structure for direct transport deploy in response to speciﬁc market requirements. to customers in Japan, and by proactively utilizing the Port of Recognizing its growing responsibility to supply products Kobe, we expect to enhance the eﬃciency of overseas transport on a global scale, in the future Sysmex plans to continue routes as well. improving its logistics eﬃciency and minimizing its Going forward, we aim to continue raising our container environmental footprint. loading ratios. To this end, our headquarters logistics department will manage global optimal inventory levels, including overseas production bases, in pursuit of transportation that is planned to minimize waste. Revising Package Designs to Reduce Material Requirements and Boost Recyclability Optimized instrument package sizes lead to improvements in storage and loading ratios. Introducing package designs that consider the unique needs of export destinations also contributes to resource savings and a higher recycling ratio. Packaging Improvements Boosting storage and loading eﬃciency by optimizing instrument package sizes Introducing package designs that take into account the local characteristics of export destinations Employing reusable packaging and steel packaging that New warehouse (scheduled to commence operation in August 2014) protects instruments ments from damage Exam Example of Packaging Improvements Main instrument and accessories combined into a single package Before Befo Accessories Ac After Main instrument instru Reusable eusable pa aackaging ckaging packaging Steel packaging Achieved a 21% reduction in volume by combining accessories and main instrument in a single package 12 Highlight 3 Environmental Conservation Activities Employee Volunteers Promote Forest Maintenance Activities at “Sysmex Forest” to Preserve Regional Water Resources and Biodiversity Conducting Forest Maintenance Activities as an in the city of Ono, Hyogo Prefecture. We dubbed this portion Aspect of Corporate Social Responsibility the “Sysmex Forest” and set about making the satoyama (a Forests play an important role in watershed protection by human-inﬂuenced natural environment) a place of tranquility storing and purifying rainwater. Forest maintenance, therefore, for people and wildlife. is essential to the maintenance of our water resources. Since In May 2013, we held a forest opening ceremony, attended the Convention on Biological Diversity at the 10th Meeting of by guests and Sysmex volunteers. For the next several years, the Conference of the Parties (COP 10), held in Nagoya in we will perform forest activities such as thinning and clearing October 2010, awareness of the importance of biodiversity in away underbrush to protect the watershed. To preserve Japan has increased. This realization has encouraged a number biodiversity, we will erect birdhouses, preserve swamp areas, of companies to take part in the protection of forests, which cultivate indigenous species and conduct ground preparation* nurture diverse plant and animal species. activities. We will also prepare mountain paths and landscape Sysmex, which uses water in its core reagent production features, plant ﬂowers and perform other tasks to revitalize activities, recognizes that contributing to local watershed the area and encourage interaction between people and nature. protection is an important social responsibility. The Company * Ground preparation: clearing away fallen leaves and twigs from the forest ﬂoor also aims to contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. For these reasons, in ﬁscal 2013 we began taking part in Encouraging Employees and Their Families to forest maintenance activities based on the “Enlist the Participate in Volunteer Activities Participation of All Citizens in Creating Woodland” project During the ﬁrst year, ﬁscal 2013, we held regular activities being promoted by the Hyogo Prefectural Government. To twice—including our opening ceremony—and ad-hoc this end, we took responsibility for a two-hectare portion of activities ﬁve times. A total of 147 employees and family members the 17-hecatre Kawai Kaiteki Forest near our reagent factory took part. Photo 1 : Sysmex Forest Photo 2 : Photo at the ceremony to commemorate the opening of the forest 2 Kawai Kaiteki Sysmex Forest Forest Ono Sysmex Ono Factory Kakogawa Kobe Harimanada Osaka Bay 1 13 Stakeholder Comment Since the opening of the forest, I have taken part in forest maintenance activities as an employee volunteer. Our work has caused a signiﬁcant and visible change in the amount of sunlight and water being let through the forest canopy. Surely this will aﬀect the forest’s ecology. Being in the middle of nature—which is so diﬀerent from their everyday activities—is an extremely valuable experience for children and a refreshing change for adults, too. I hope to continue participating in this enjoyable activity with other employees and their families, as well as members of the local community, as we work to create a place of tranquility for people and wildlife. Eri Doumoto, Manager, Production Division 2 (Ono Factory), Sysmex International Reagents Co., Ltd. At the regular activity in November 2013, more than 30 Taking Part in Corporate Citizenship Activities employees and their family members volunteered for such Linked with Environmental Preservation at activities as thinning, ground preparation and building steps Overseas Group Companies along mountain pathways. Since commencing its Sysmex Forest activities in ﬁscal 2013, Completing these tasks allowed the light to penetrate the Sysmex has also undertaken a host of environmental preservation forest cover more easily, encouraging seeds to sprout and initiatives in Japan and overseas. For instance, at Sysmex diverse plants to grow. Ad-hoc activities included initiatives America, our regional headquarters for the Americas, employee themed on the cyclical use of forest resources. For example, volunteers have taken part in cleanup activities to protect the thinning of Quercus serrate trees yielded edible shiitake forests. Employees at Sysmex New Zealand conducted cleanups mushrooms, and the branches and leaves that were gathered along the coast, which is home to diverse species of wildlife. during ground preparation were piled into mulch stacks to Going forward, Sysmex will continue contributing to create a habitat for unicorn beetles and other insects. environmental preservation by promoting corporate citizenship Even small children are taking part in Sysmex Forest activities that are closely rooted in the local community. activities. We hope that participating in forest maintenance activities will foster an awareness of the environment. Going forward, we will cooperate with regional government bodies, forestry cooperatives and local citizens with a long-term perspective to make the Sysmex Forest a place of tranquility for people and wildlife. Photo 3 : Thinning the forest Photo 4 : Preparing the ground Photo 5 : Repairing mountain paths 4 Overview of “Sysmex Forest” Activities in Fiscal 2013 Thinning, clearing underbrush watershed protection Bioenvironmental survey by specialized institution, ground preparation, gathering branches and leaves preserving biodiversity Planting cherry and other trees, preparing mountain paths, making f lowerbeds making satoyama (human-inﬂuenced natural environments) 3 5 14 Overview of CSR Initiatives Setting of Mid-Term Objectives and Promotion of CSR Activities To be more proactive in our CSR initiatives, in April 2013 we established the Mid-Term CSR Plan (ﬁscal 2013–2015) based on the he 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the ISO 26000 international standards for social responsibility. We are promoting CSR activities and working to resolve social issues based on this plan. CSR Mid-Term Status of Activities in Fiscal 2013 Category Activities Planned for Fiscal 2014 Objectives : According to plan : Partly completed Organizational ( 1 ) Reinforcement of the •Revised Readjusted group •Deploy Global Compliance Regulations and the Global governance compliance system compliance system, and established Compliance Code throughout the Group. Compliance Committee. •Strengthen coordination between Group companies on •Revised Global Compliance legal management system. Regulations and Global Compliance Code. (2) Improvement of •Commenced working group activity •Complete function-speciﬁc business continuity manual. business continuity to build Business Continuity •Plan and implement proactive actions (such as seismic plan Management System toward reinforcement and disaster recovery) revision of business continuity plan. •Conduct assessments on additional risks related to human rights of employees and in the supply chain, as well as climate change. Human rights / (3) Promotion of •Introduced system to support a •Introduce leave compensation (beneﬁt) for people taking Labor practices diversity smooth transition for people nursing care leave. returning from childcare or nursing •Conduct training to promote a proper understanding of care leave. labor management (harassment, time management, •Enhanced facilities for people with work-life balance). disabilities. •Promote global recruiting, and extend internship system to people overseas. Environment (4) Promotion of •Promoted environment-friendliness •Make products more compact and lightweight, reduce environmental of products (such as by responding energy consumption, simplify product packaging. activities to achieve to the RoHS Directive*1). •Switch to alternatives for animal-derived substances. the long-term •Fell short of ﬁscal 2013 targets for •Conduct activities in preparation for a declaration of environmental reducing the environmental impact conformance with the RoHS Directive (July 2015). objectives (Sysmex of our operations (electricity, water •Promote remote product maintenance services. Eco-Vision 2020) consumption) due to operational •Foster a shift from air to ocean transport. facility upgrades and changes in the •Reduce energy use at business sites. manufacturing composition. •Maintain waste recycling ratio at business sites. •Reduce water use at reagent factories. Fair operating (5) Promotion of •Veriﬁed compliance systems in •Cultivate internal awareness of overseas anti-bribery practices fair trade response to bribery laws and legislation and EU anti-monopoly laws. anti-monopoly acts and planned •Obtain external evaluation of compliance system. countermeasures. •Disclose information on the basis of sunshine laws*2. •Revised the Sysmex Promotion Code. (6) Promotion of •Revised our procurement policy •Ensure understanding of new procurement policy among CSR procurement from a CSR perspective. business partners and related departments within the Company. •Commit procurement-related initiatives concerning human rights, ethics, occupational health and safety, and survey the status of conformance among business partners. Consumer issues (7) Enhancement of •Focused on security risk •Enhance the current security level, review the information security countermeasures on the business operations of departmental systems, document procedures operations. Addressed security risk on and conduct training. the system by introducing a new CRM system*3 and extended certiﬁcation of Information Security Management System. (8) Improvement of •Commenced VOC activities*4 via •Analyze new CRM system’s VOC information and customer satisfaction new CRM system. communicate it to related departments. Community (9) Promotion of •Performed community contribution •Commence operations of the social contribution point involvement and social contribution activities (such as conducting forest system, and plan and introduce related measures. activities maintenance activities at the “Sysmex development Forest” and opening to the public a historic building we have rented from the city of Kobe, the “Minato Ijinkan”). •Introduced an employee volunteer activity support system (a social contribution point system). *1 RoHS Directive: A directive prohibiting the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic devices sold in the European Union. This directive calls for the cessation of use of heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent chromium) and speciﬁed bromine-containing ﬂame retardants (PBB and PBDE). *2 Sunshine laws: A vernacular term for laws such as those that have been put into place in the United States, France and other countries that make it a legal obligation for pharmaceutical companies to disclose information about payments to doctors and research institutions. *3 CRM system: A system that comprehensively manages a variety of data about each customer *4 VOC activities: Activities involving the collection and analysis of customer opinions, and feeding this information back into business operations. 15 Global Topics Sysmex took part in a host of CSR activities around the world in ﬁscal 2013. Some major activities are introduced below. P15 Japan XN-2000 Automated Hematology Analyzer and XN Reagents Win German Design Award ASTRIM FIT Health Monitoring Analyzer Receives Good Design Award Focusing on the Development of Global Human Resources Supporting Customers’ Daily Quality Control Sponsoring the Kobe Marathon P17 Americas Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll for the Sixth Consecutive Year for Our Eﬀorts to Create a Motivating Workplace and Corporate Citizenship Activities Proactively Supporting Employee Growth Respecting Diversity, and Building a Motivating Working Environment Topping Customer Satisfaction Survey for the 14th Consecutive Year Contributing to Children’s Lives and Healthcare in Brazil P19 EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Creating a Motivating Workplace through the Aggressive Rollout of Childrearing Support and Health Promotion Measures Developing Training Plans to Reﬂect Individual Employees’ Needs Global Personnel Exchange Program Contracting out Some Work to Organizations Supporting People with Disabilities Supporting Breast Cancer Awareness Events P21 China Collaborating with Universities to Cultivate Engineers That Can Resolve the Issues Medical Professionals Face Focusing on Creation of a Safe and Comfortable Workplace and Proactive Communications Acquiring ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation at Our Reagent Factory Educating Employees to Ensure Thorough Compliance with Fair Trading P22 Asia Pacif ic More Than 500 People from 17 Countries Take Part in AP International Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminars Activities Aimed at Enhancing Employee Solidarity Baddhi Factory in India Receives Award for Environmental Protection Activities Supporting Quality Control, Contributing to Standardization in Emerging Markets Providing Support for Events to Raise Awareness of Breast Cancer 16 Global Topics Japan XN-2000 Automated Hematology Analyzer and XN Reagents Win German Design Award In December 2013, Sysmex’s XN-Series XN-2000 automated Award 2013, which is an independent German design award, hematology analyzer and XN reagents received the German in November 2012. Design Award, sponsored by the German Design Council. In addition to improved functionality and performance, Nomination for the German Design Award is conditioned the XN-2000 was evaluated highly for its appearance and the upon prior receipt of another international design award, and usability of the “Silent Design®” product concept, which is an honor in itself. The rigorous screening for this award has reduces the burden on clinical laboratory technologists. Such led to it being referred to as an “award among awards.” The high ratings led to the XN-2000 and XN reagents being ranked XN-2000 and XN reagents were nominated for the German among the top 100 of the 1,900 products nominated. Design Award based upon receipt of the iF Product Design XN-2000 automated hematology analyzer XN reagents ASTRIM FIT Health Monitoring Analyzer Receives Good Design Award In January 2014, Sysmex launched the ASTRIM FIT, which measures estimated hemoglobin levels in peripheral blood without the need for blood sampling. Highly rated for its advanced functionality, as well as its compactness and the attractiveness of its exterior housing, the ASTRIM FIT received the Good Design Award 2013, sponsored by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion. More compact than previous models and designed to be about one-third their price, in addition to top athletes Sysmex hopes to expand the instrument’s application to training locations for the young athletes who will participate in the 2020 ASTRIM FIT Tokyo Olympic Games. 17 Human Rights, Labor Practices In ﬁscal 2013, the SNCS received Focusing on the Development of a Grand Prix at the IT Japan Award Global Human Resources 2013, sponsored by Nikkei Sysmex focuses on developing global human resources, which Computer (published by Nikkei are core to its global business. Business Publications, Inc.), for We introduced the Global Apprentice Program targeting excellence in the application of younger employees in ﬁscal 2011. We solicit participants internally information technology. The system for this program, which oﬀers employees the opportunity to was rated highly for “simultaneously work at overseas subsidiaries and is open to employees who enhancing customer satisfaction IT Japan Award 2013 Grand aim to develop global careers. The objective of the program is and boosting business eﬃciency.” Prix plaque to foster a core of global personnel within the Company. Upon their return, some of the employees participate in debrieﬁng Community Involvement and Development meetings, where they report on their experience working in overseas market environments. This approach helps to convey Sponsoring the Kobe Marathon information about overseas conditions to Sysmex in Japan. By The theme of the Kobe Marathon, “Thanks and Friendship,” is the end of ﬁscal 2013, a total of 13 employees had been meant to express the gratitude of the people in the Kobe area dispatched overseas through this program. to everyone who assisted in the reconstruction of the region In ﬁscal 2012, we also began promoting exchanges of following the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake. Sysmex Japanese and overseas personnel by instituting the Global Corporation, which is headquartered in Kobe, shares this sense Personnel Exchange Program, aimed at strengthening ties of gratitude and, as a company involved in healthcare that through deeper mutual understanding. (See page 20 for details.) aims to contribute to a healthy society through sports, is proud to have been a special sponsor of the event since its inception. For the third marathon, held in November 2013, Sysmex supplied bib numbers to around 20,000 participating runners. Sysmex Group employees and their families also took part in volunteer activities, providing broad-ranging support for the event. Sysmex also exhibited at the Kobe Marathon EXPO, and oﬀered participants a chance to check their health condition by using its product, the ASTRIM, to measure estimated hemoglobin levels in peripheral blood without the need for blood sampling. Members of the Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team also conducted a lecture on stretching and presided over a talk show. Sysmex plans to continue helping to invigorate the Kobe Employees strengthening ties through the Global Apprentice Program region through sports by sponsoring the 4th Kobe Marathon, scheduled for November 2014. Consumer Issues Supporting Customers’ Daily Quality Control At hospitals and other healthcare facilities, instrument and reagent precision is controlled to maintain consistent testing data reliability. In most cases, the condition of instruments and reagents is checked by comparing on a daily basis the measurement results of materials known as control samples, with reference values and results. Sysmex supports quality control by providing these control materials. Customer instruments are connected to the Customer Support Center via our online Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS). Measured values of control samples sent via the SNCS from customer instruments are received by the Customer Support Center Volunteers providing water at the 3rd Kobe Marathon and compared with other counts by the same instrument to detect signs of abnormalities. Analysis results are then returned to the customer. In ﬁscal 2013, on a trial basis we began oﬀering a “smart maintenance” service for some products that use SNCS circuits to check instrument operating status remotely. 18 Global Topics Americas Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll for the Sixth Consecutive Year for Our Eﬀorts to Create a Motivating Workplace and Corporate Citizenship Activities Sysmex America does its best to make the workplace motivating for employees, and is proactive in corporate citizenship activities. As a company that has developed its business in the ﬁeld of healthcare over many years, Sysmex America believes in fostering a better society from the standpoint of health. Accordingly, the company consistently contributes to such organizations as the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society through ongoing donations. In ﬁscal 2013, Sysmex America donated a total of more than US$100,000 to such causes. Company volunteers also participate actively in events sponsored by these organizations. In ﬁscal 2013, Sysmex America supported and more than 20 employees volunteered in eﬀorts to distribute food to the needy through the Northern Illinois Food Bank, an NPO, by Cleaning activity for forest conservation packing foods and assisting in other tasks. The company takes part in various other initiatives, as well, such as conserving nearby forests. Recognized for initiatives such as these, Sysmex America was selected as a member of the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2014, sponsored by a U.S. non-proﬁt organization. This was the sixth year in a row that Sysmex America has received this award, which recognizes companies for corporate citizenship Employee volunteers who participated in food activities and proactive eﬀorts to create a motivating workplace. distribution initiative 19 Human Rights, Labor Practices Consumer Issues Proactively Supporting Employee Growth Topping Customer Satisfaction Survey for the 14th Sysmex America conducts a 60-day orientation and training Consecutive Year program for new employees, and has e-learning programs in place Sysmex established its U.S. subsidiary in 1979, and the company for all employees. The company has also introduced a scholarship commenced local direct sales and support activities in 2003. system that encourages employees to study independently at Since that time, the company has worked to improve universities and other locations. Employee-students are customer satisfaction. We help ensure that instruments reimbursed according to performance, and Sysmex America operate stably at customer locations via the Sysmex Network provides up to US$5,250 for university-level study and as much Communication Systems (SNCS), an online network support as US$10,000 for study at the graduate level. service. We also have in place a purpose-build studio, where In ﬁscal 2013, Sysmex America conducted the Sysmex we provide real-time virtual training on instrument handling Management Academy to bolster business management for customers. Such extensive support has earned us numerous expertise and enhance leadership skills. More than 30 managers positive customer reviews. from the Americas took part in academy courses. As one indicator of its success in such initiatives, the company has received the top ranking among manufacturers of hematology analyzers in a survey of customer satisfaction* for 14 consecutive years. In a separate questionnaire survey that we conducted by email and post in November 2013, we received 9.1 out of 10.0 possible marks for customer satisfaction. * IMV Service Track US user survey Community Involvement and Development Contributing to Children’s Lives and Healthcare in Brazil In ﬁscal 2013, Sysmex Brazil supported a project called “The trailer of Mr. Manuel,” in which a trailer went through neighborhoods, conducting shows and providing Christmas presents. This project Students of the Sysmex Management Academy has contributed to the lives of more than 16,000 children and their families. The company also cooperates with São Roque, Respecting Diversity, and Building a Motivating an organization that extends a helping hand to orphans and Working Environment vulnerable children, hosting concerts by a children’s choral Sysmex America has designed and put in place an aﬃrmative group at its factory. action program aimed at encouraging diversity. In line with its For the past ﬁve years, Sysmex Brazil has provided support focus of cultivating an environment that fosters diverse to the Little Prince Pediatric Hospital, which encourages the working styles, Sysmex America oﬀers ﬂextime and spread of pediatric healthcare. In ﬁscal 2013, the company teleworking systems. The company has also entered into an cooperated with projects under the theme of Advances in Health agreement with an outsourced service provider to provide Treatment for the Right to Live, aimed at cultivating leading-edge support if an employee’s family member suddenly falls ill. diagnostics research and the spread of knowledge about Underscoring its commitment to health maintenance and pediatric healthcare. improvement, the company has an on-site ﬁtness gym. As an indicator of how employees view these initiatives, Sysmex America earns high marks in employee satisfaction surveys that it conducts via an independent organization. Evincing the strong connection between the company and its employees, in ﬁscal 2013 Sysmex America was one company selected in the Top Workplaces survey of regional organizations by the Chicago Tribune . Concert by a children’s choral group 20 Global Topics EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Creating a Motivating Workplace through the Aggressive Rollout of Childrearing Support and Health Promotion Measures Sysmex Europe and Sysmex Deutschland have in place a variety of programs and facilities aimed at creating a Principal Initiatives for Promoting Physical workplace that motivates employees. For example, the and Mental Health companies oﬀer a childcare support program that provides employees with €50 per month for each child under the age of Provision of yoga, pilates, badminton, boxing and four, when both mother and father are working. Keen to other sports courses promote the physical and mental health of their employees, (free of charge if participating regularly) the companies oﬀer counseling by dieticians and Assistance for regular sporting activities for field psychotherapists and provide in-house ﬁtness areas. workers (€50/month) In ﬁscal 2013, Sysmex participated for the second time in the Great Place to Work competition, conducted by a survey Counseling by a dietician (free of charge) body. Sysmex was ranked 50th out of 100 Best German Counseling by a psychotherapist (free of charge) Employers (compared with 64th place in ﬁscal 2011) with 50–500 employees. Going forward, we will conduct our own Massage provision (company pays 50%) employee satisfaction survey spanning the entire EMEA region. 21 Human Rights, Labor Practices Community Involvement and Development Developing Training Plans to Reflect Individual Contracting out Some Work to Organizations Employees’ Needs Supporting People with Disabilities The human resource development team at Sysmex Europe Sysmex Europe’s reagent factory contracts out work such as develops and implements annual training plans, and then veriﬁes materials selection to organizations that support eﬀorts by their eﬀectiveness. Employee development plans reﬂect individual people with disabilities to become more self-reliant. Such employees’ training needs, determined through interviews with organizations also dispatch workers with disabilities to the their supervisors and with HR. factory’s manufacturing lines. Based on this structure, Sysmex Europe conducts on-board Sysmex Europe also contracts out work to companies that training, training for management skills development, and an employ people with disabilities, assigning them such tasks as EMEA-wide international leadership training called the “Tsunagari shredding conﬁdential documents. Program.” Additionally, HR promotes the Sysmex School, whereby employees provide training and instruction to their Supporting Breast Cancer Awareness Events peers. Programs such as these are conducted every year to Under the DigniLifeTM brand, Sysmex Europe has developed a encourage employee development. product that reduces the hair loss associated with cancer chemotherapy by cooling the scalp, thereby contributing to patient quality of life. In September 2013, through this brand Sysmex Europe sponsored a Komen Race for the Cure running event that took place in a municipal park in Hamburg, Germany. A race aimed at raising awareness of breast cancer and lending courage to patients and their families, fundraising activities are conducted at the same time to support breast cancer related educational projects. During the event, Sysmex Europe exhibited at a DigniLifeTM booth. In addition to providing information about scalp cooling and hair maintenance, booth activities allowed participants to actually experience a reduction in scalp temperature. Tsunagari Program A “DigniLife” team of 27 employees also took part in the race itself, constituting the seventh largest team among the 1,700 Global Personnel Exchange Program participants. Participants themselves appeared impressed by Sysmex introduced the Global Personnel Exchange Program in the event, and some commented that they believed Sysmex’s ﬁscal 2012 to promote mutual exchange between employees participation encouraged people with illnesses. in Japan and at Group companies overseas. The program aims DigniLife™ team to strengthen ties through deeper mutual understanding. members who participated In November 2013, employees from Germany, Hungary and in the race the Czech Republic visited Japan, experiencing operations at headquarters in Kobe and participating in discussion and forums. They also visited customers’ research laboratories in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. In January 2014, Japanese employees visited Sysmex Europe, our regional headquarters for EMEA, where they likewise experienced work activities and visited customers, thereby deepening communications. The DigniLife™ booth Experiencing work activities through interaction with employees 22 Global Topics China Collaborating with Universities to Cultivate Engineers Who Can Resolve the Issues Medical Professionals Face In July 2013, Sysmex Shanghai and the Shanghai Medical extensive operational expertise and skills possessed by Instrumentation College (SMIC) opened a training center as a engineers at Sysmex Shanghai. By doing so, we believe we can collaborative project to cultivate clinical testing instrument engineers. provide eﬀective education and instruction to people with This program seeks to combine the superb educational enthusiasm, developing excellent engineers who will address experience of SMIC’s professors and researchers with the some of the issues China’s medical community faces. Signing ceremony SMIC Human Rights, Labor Practices Environment Focusing on Creation of a Safe and Comfortable Acquiring ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation at Our Workplace and Proactive Communications Reagent Factory The Jinan Factory, one of Sysmex’s two reagent factories in Sysmex is working toward the acquisition of ISO 14001, the China, has put a special eﬀort toward creating a workplace that international standard for environmental management, for the employees ﬁnd safe and comfortable. In addition to thorough Group as a whole. Our Wuxi Factory in China acquired this attention to occupational health and safety, work spaces are certiﬁcation in June 2013. illuminated with natural lighting, which has a refreshing eﬀect, to create bright and healthy-feeling spaces. We have expanded Fair Operating Practices our employee welfare facilities, such as the dining hall and recreation areas, and made a biotope and walkways that Educating Employees to Ensure Thorough impart a refreshing natural feeling. Compliance with Fair Trading Another reagent factory in the country, the Wuxi Factory, Sysmex is mounting a full-ﬂedged eﬀort to prevent corruption conducts employee satisfaction surveys; in our ﬁscal 2013 survey and promote fair transactions. To this end, the Company we scored an overall satisfaction level of more than 70%. distributes to employees a compliance handbook it has published, as well as providing education on the topic. For Group companies in China, in ﬁscal 2013 we conducted training on corruption prevention and antimonopoly law for distributors, as well as new employees, members of the sales and marketing department, accounting staﬀ and managers. 23 Global Topics Asia Pacif ic More Than 500 People from 17 Countries Take Part in AP International Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminars The fourth AP International Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminar took Themed “Adding New Dimensions to Diagnostics,” the place in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on October 8 and 9, 2013. event featured meaningful talks by 12 instructors from seven Our largest seminar in Asia to date, the event attracted more countries on topics such as applications to clinical diagnostics than 500 customers from 17 countries. and presentation of case studies. Fourth AP International Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminar The seminar’s opening Human Rights, Labor Practices Consumer Issues Activities Aimed at Enhancing Employee Solidarity Supporting Quality Control, Contributing to During ﬁscal year 2013, we conducted activities aimed at Standardization in Emerging Markets boosting solidarity among employees at Group companies in Sysmex contributes to the standardization of testing in emerging the Asia Paciﬁc region. markets through such initiatives as working with local As well as conducting discussions and workshops, we governments and academic societies on and external quality promoted leadership and fostered teamwork through activities control*. In Mongolia, the Sysmex reference counter is used as like forest trekking and sports. the standard instrument for external quality control purposes. We also support various eﬀorts toward standardization in Thailand, the Philippines and other countries. Environment * External quality control: A process for conﬁrming the accuracy of measurement Baddhi Factory in India Receives Award for data by comparing such data from the diagnostic instruments of speciﬁc institutions with those of the reference counter (an instrument that provides Environmental Protection Activities measurement data accepted as standard) and other institutions Sysmex India’s Baddhi Factory, along with eight other companies, received an award from a local industry association as a Community Involvement and Development “small-scale industrial business that focuses on environmental protection activities.” Providing Support for Events to Raise Awareness The Baddhi region is one of India’s largest industrial areas, of Breast Cancer housing more than 3,000 companies. Sysmex Malaysia sponsored The Pink Charity Run, held in October 2013 at Stadium Padang Sultan Sulaiman. Participation in this charity event was one aspect of “Greener Sysmex,” CSR activities being promoted by the company’s employees. Organized by a local hospital group, the event promoted breast cancer awareness and raised money for patient support organizations. 24 Corporate Governance Aiming to Enhance Management Robustness and Transparency and Increase Its Speed and Efficiency Sysmex considers reinforcing corporate governance to be among its most important management priorities. By enhancing management robustness and transparency and increasing its speed and efficiency, we aim to maximize corporate value throughout the Group. The Company’s Managing Board comprises nine members, one of whom is an outside member. This board makes important management decisions and supervises the execution of business. Within the Managing Board, we have established the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee, which have the same roles as under a “companies with committees” system. Furthermore, The Company has adopted the corporate auditor system, and the Board of Auditors consists of four corporate auditors, two of whom are external auditors. The corporate auditors supervise the members’ business conduct objectively from an independent position. In April 2005, we adopted the executive officer system in order to increase the speed of decision making in the conduct of business and respond quickly to changes in the business environment. The company has 18 executive officers, seven of whom are also members of the Managing Board. In addition, Sysmex has in place the Global Strategic Committee, which deliberates on the Group’s management direction and important strategic issues, and the Steering Committee, which serves as a consultative body to the chairman and CEO to deliberate on important matters concerning the Group’s business. Corporate Governance Structure 25 Internal Control System Improvements Based on a Managing Board resolution on internal control systems reached in fiscal 2007, Sysmex has put in place and promotes the steady operation of systems for compliance, information retention and management, risk management, efficient execution of professional duties, Group company management and auditing. In fiscal 2008, Sysmex formulated Internal Control Regulations concerning Financial Statements and established an Internal Control Committee concerning Financial Statements, a consultative body to the chairman and CEO. To prevent internal control effectiveness from being lost against the backdrop of a business environment undergoing rapid transformation, we focus on training and awareness activities targeting employees in related departments and are working to sustain improvements. Compliance Pursuing Open and Aboveboard Business Activities Based on our Group philosophy, the “Sysmex Way,” we define our view of compliance as “conducting business activities not only in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also based on fairness and the high ethical standards” In accordance with this definition, we have established a Global Compliance Code, in which particularly important conformance rules for all executives and employees to abide by are compiled. We conduct training programs to ensure the thorough permeation of the code within the organization. The code also applies to entire Group companies, constructing an integrated compliance structure. We revised the compliance structure in October 2013, establishing the Compliance Committee independently from the Risk Management Committee. In addition, we are encouraging compliance in a manner that reinforces the relationship between the Group Compliance Officer and the officer of group companies. In May 2014, we revised our global compliance code, adding text to describe our thoughts on ethics in relation to research and development, prevention of bribery, adherence to international guidelines such as the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, as well as research and development. We also set forth a bylaw for revising this code once every two years, in principle, to respond to changes in our internal and external environments. Compliance Structure 26 Sysmex Global Compliance Code 1. To Ensure Safety of Our Products and Services to Customers In all of our corporate activities, we will make it a matter of priority to provide our customers with safety and security. 2. To Promote Fair Dealing and Free Competition We will deal with our customers and business partners in a just and fair manner and will conduct transactions under appropriate conditions. As regards our relations with other companies in the same line of business, we will not illegally, dishonestly or unreasonably restrict their business, nor will we engage in the public defamation of those companies. 3. Fair and Proper Information Disclosure and Exercise of Complete Information Control Our corporate information, such as our group’s financial conditions and business activities, will be disclosed in a fair, prompt, correct and clear manner in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and we will exercise strict control over confidential information collected through our business activities so as not to cause any infringement to the rights of third parties. 4. . Implementation of Appropriate Research and Development Activities When carrying out our research and development, we will protect the dignity and human rights of the trial subjects and their privacy in the research of genes and other matters, and will comply with applicable laws and regulations and carry out our research activities in accordance with high ethical standards. 5. To Respect Intellectual Property We respect both the rights of our own company’s intellectual properties and the intellectual properties of others. We will not unlawfully acquire or utilize any confidential business information or the proprietary assets of others. 6. To Maintain International Peace and Safety We will comply with exportand import-related laws and regulations, and will not be engaged in any transaction likely to impede maintenance of international peace and safety. 7. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payments We will always apply the appropriate accounting treatment and recognize tax obligations set forth in applicable tax laws and accounting regulations and standards. 8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety We will support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Core Labour Standards, and respect the fundamental human rights of each person and will not infringe thereon by such acts as discrimination, harassment, etc. We will also comply with applicable laws and regulations, endeavor to improve occupational health and safety, and will not force any unfair labor practice on the personnel of the company. 9. Distinction between Public and Private Matters and No Conflicts of Interest We will not attempt to gain any personal profit in performance of our duties, and will not make any unauthorized use of our group’s assets, goods and information, nor will we perform such personal acts that may cause harm to our group’s business activities or reputation. 10. To Maintain Sound Relationships with Society We will comply with applicable laws and regulations related to anti-bribery statutes and comply strictly with applicable laws when making political donations, if allowed under local law. We will not be intimidated by antisocial activities, behavior and groups, and will never maintain any relationship with them. 27 11. To Preserve the Global Environment We will comply with environment-related laws and regulations, etc. and pay attention to the environment throughout our business activities based on international standards, etc. for the environment in an endeavor to preserve and improve the global environment. Revised May 2014 Continuously Providing Education on Compliance Compliance managers are in place at each Group company, and Sysmex provides compliance education for all employees. We have produced a Compliance Handbook and distributed a copy to each Group company employee in Japan to ensure that all employees are thoroughly compliance-aware. Furthermore, in addition to regular compliance training Sysmex Corporation sets important themes for each year, and training is conducted at each department according to relevant themes. In fiscal 2013, we conducted training on the themes of information management, appropriate relationships with civil servants and ensuring transparency in relationships with medical institutions. We also conduct compliance education at Group companies overseas, in accordance with conditions in individual countries. Principal Compliance Training Conducted in Fiscal 2013 (1) Information management (protecting personal information and company secrets, points to bear in mind concerning leaks) Conducted training for all employees via e-learning Conducted training for sales division employees at manager level or above (2) Appropriate relationships with civil servants Held seminars for executive officers and members of the Managing Board Conducted training for sales division employees at manager level or above (3) Ensuring transparency in relationships with medical institutions (dealing with overseas “sunshine acts” requiring the disclosure of information about payment to medical institutions, responding to Japanese transparency guidelines) Conducted training for department heads Used intranet to ensure thorough awareness at affiliated companies overseas (regarding sunshine acts) (4) Pharmaceutical Affairs Act Conducted training for sales, support, development and manufacturing departments (5) Security export control Conducted training for personnel in charge of these activities, as well as for new hires (6) Accounting, tax affairs Conducted training for newly appointed managers (7) Personnel administration, harassment Conducted training for managers (8) Environment Conducted basic training on the environmental management system for relevant departments 28 Internal Reporting System The “Campanula Lines,” an internal reporting system originally developed for Group companies in Japan, allows our employees to seek consultations and file reports via telephone, postal mail or e-mail through two lines (in-house and external). Any information received is handled anonymously to protect those providing the nformation from any adverse reactions. Also, such internal reporting systems are in place at overseas Group companies. “Campanula Lines” Internal Reporting System Establishing a Security Export Control Structure Sysmex strives to reinforce its security export control system based on the Security Export Control Regulations, thoroughly verifying the destinations and purposes of its exports. In fiscal 2013, we conducted a companywide e-learning program on security export control and export administration regulations in the United States to ensure thorough awareness of controls. We also conducted audits to raise the consciousness of managers and people responsible for departments. Furthermore, to strengthen the security export control system for the Group as a whole, we are introducing management systems that link with enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems at regional headquarters overseas in an effort to ensure management thoroughness and increase efficiency. To Respect Intellectual Property Sysmex accords third-party intellectual property rights the same level of respect as it does its own. Each new product development project involves a patent review to decide what patents to apply for to protect our own intellectual property and review third parties’ intellectual property information. As a part of this review, a patent application study committee is convened, where Intellectual Property members and R&D engineers draw up patent application policies and plans for technologies under development. At the same time, the committee investigates the status of third-party intellectual property rights, thereby minimizing any risks associated with intellectual property. 29 Conducting Appropriate R&D Activities Being involved in clinical research and development and human genome and genetic analysis research, Sysmex has adopted the Ethics Regulations on Clinical Research and Development and Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research, whose basic policies include respect of human dignity and thorough protection of personal information. Sysmex has also established a Research Ethics Examination Committee, which includes outside members such as legal and science experts, in order to review research content. The list of committee members and examination results are disclosed on our website, thus ensuring transparency. In relation to animal testing and recombinant genetic testing, we have also set up the Testing Control Committee to deliberate on whether testing plans satisfy related legislation. Encouraging Fair Transactions in Accordance with Promotion Codes Sysmex is striving to prevent corruption based on the 10th principle of the Global Compact, that “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” We have established the Sysmex Promotion Code (SPC), which stipulates the core behaviors for preventing bribery and other inappropriate acts and maintaining fair trade. As an organization under the Compliance Committee, we have created a task force to promote fair trading. This task force conducts awareness activities to heighten employee consciousness about SPC compliance. In fiscal 2013, we conducted training on appropriate relationships with civil servants and ensuring transparency in relationships with medical institutions. Principles for Transparency in Relationships with Medical Institutions Introduction Sysmex, with its Group corporate mission of “Shaping the advancement of healthcare,” conducts business activities with the aim of providing reassurance to its various stakeholders, including customers. As part of this objective, at every stage of our operations—from research and development to manufacturing, sales and after-sales support—we are increasing the number of opportunities for collaboration with medical institutions and medical professionals. We believe that maintaining a strong sense of ethics as we go about these activities is important in securing broader society’s understanding of us as a company. In 2012, the Japan Association of Clinical Reagents Industries formulated guidelines for ensuring the transparency of relationships between corporate activities and medical institutions. Concurring with the gist of these guidelines, we make public information about funding we provide to medical institutions. Disclosure Method We disclose relevant information for the previous fiscal year on our website. Disclosure Period Information related to fiscal 2013 is disclosed in fiscal 2014. Target of Disclosure This information is based on the “Guidelines on Transparency of Relationships between Corporate Activities and Medical Institutions” established by the Japan Association of Clinical Reagents Industries. 30 Risk Management Promoting Risk Management by Establishing a Dedicated Committee To control groupwide risk management activities, Sysmex established a Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by a Risk Management Officer, the Group’s chief executive in charge of risk management. The Risk Management Committee identifies major risks having the potential to significantly impact the Group’s business and consistently observes the results of risk response and monitoring by individual divisions and affiliated companies. In fiscal 2013, we revamped our overall risk management structure, including the Risk Management Committee, to ensure a swifter and more decisive risk response. For example, under the new structure committees, committees rather than the Risk Management Committee as well as departments and affiliated companies as part of normal risk management respond to business risks themselves. The Risk Management Committee, meanwhile, clarifies roles and responsibilities for responding to major risks to the Group. This arrangement has increased the decisiveness of our response to everyday risks. We have also revised our structure for responding more quickly when risks materialize. Risk Management Structure 31 Focusing on Disaster Response Of all its risk management activities, Sysmex focuses in particular on disaster response and is putting in place systems to ensure its rapid response during emergencies. In fiscal 2013, we revised our Disaster Countermeasure Standards, setting in place emergency response standards that can be deployed across the Group. In addition, we introduced at affiliated companies in Japan the safety confirmation tools that Sysmex Corporation employs as a means of emergency communication. This system will allow us to quickly determine the safety of members across the Group. We also conduct disaster drills periodically to instill an awareness of activities that need to be performed in the event of a disaster. The groupwide backbone IT system that Sysmex Corporation operates is located at external, disaster-resistant data centers. In addition, in fiscal 2013 we created a backup structure so that we can quickly switch to a backup system in the event that disaster renders our regular system inoperable. Information Security Sysmex handles data about its customers, as well as on the entities with which it collaborates on R&D and other testing. We recognize the importance of upholding information such as this, as well as of other important corporate secrets, and view the leak of such corporate secrets as an important risk for the Group. Accordingly, we have in place structures to prevent this risk from materializing. For this reason, Sysmex Corporation and its affiliated companies in Japan conducts ongoing training for all employees at the divisional manager level and below to impress upon them the importance of and increase awareness of information management and entrench our rules on managing corporate secrecy. CSR Management Sysmex CSR Builds Trust and Confidence through Practice of the Sysmex Way Sysmex CSR builds trust and confidence to all our stakeholders through the practice of the Sysmex Way, the corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group. The Sysmex Way indicates the way the most basic corporate activities ought to be conducted, consisting of three elements necessary for continued growth: Mission, Value and Mind. The mission expresses the expansion of our business from activities centered on the field of diagnostics—a focus since our establishment—to the broader healthcare domain with its even closer connection to human health. In this manner, the mission asserts our aim of contributing toward the realization of a society filled with abundance, health and joy. The Core Behaviors clarify provision of specific value to customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, society and all our stakeholders. For example, to provide reassurance to all members of society we carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. We also consider it important to play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. To become more proactive in our CSR initiatives, Sysmex joined the United Nations Global Compact in February 2011. We practice the 10 principles related to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. 32 The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 33 Promoting Direct Dialogue with Various Stakeholders Sysmex values opportunities for direct dialogue with stakeholders. We incorporate opinions and requests received into our business activities. Main Dialogue Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Customers Conducted survey on degree of customer satisfaction in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) Held scientific seminars in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) Ongoing customer training program incorporating customer feedback in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) Employees Investigated desire concerning career design, including interest in working overseas or changing jobs through a voluntary reporting given to all employees, with results made use of in HR rotation (Sysmex Corporation) Conducted collective bargaining with the labor union and held labor–management meetings on topics such as workplace environment improvement (Sysmex Corporation) Business Partners Held the 45th Anniversary Sysmex Suppliers Conference, communicating our appreciation to suppliers for their ongoing assistance, and took this as an opportunity to share our thoughts on business continuity plans (BCPs) (Sysmex Corporation) Shareholders and Investors Conducted IR tours in France and Russia targeting institutional investors and analysts (Sysmex Corporation) Held the 11th Technology Presentation for institutional investors and analysts (Sysmex Corporation) Held informational meetings for individual investors (Sysmex Corporation) Conducted tour for shareholders (Sysmex Corporation) Communities Held event for local community interaction at R&D core Technopark (Sysmex Corporation) Participated in math and science education-focused “6th Science Fair in Hyogo” event for high school students (Sysmex Corporation) Participated in the “Aim High Urban Mentoring Initiative” conducted by a U.S. NPO and advised local high school students (Sysmex America) 34 We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions that consistently reflect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers' true needs, and seek to generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. Quality Assurance Quality Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global business activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We understand our customer’s needs, and provide products and solutions that meet or exceed their expectations. 2. We act based on our customer’s viewpoints by realizing that “Quality is customer satisfaction”. 3. We seek to reassure our customers by establishing the highest quality assurance standards and using them to enhance the quality of all aspects of our business. 4. We continually create innovative value for our stakeholders by developing and applying new and unique technologies and knowledge. 5. We comply with all relevant national or regional regulations and standards to provide safe products. 6. We maintain and continually improve the effectiveness of our quality management system. 7. We establish quality objectives consistent with this quality policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised in May 2007 35 Building a Global Quality Management System Sysmex has constructed a system to ensure compliance with laws and regulations around the world based on “Quality Policy” and “Sysmex Corporation Quality Compliance Policy,” and we act accordingly. With regard to our quality management system, nearly all Group companies handling development or manufacturing functions have constructed management systems in line with and obtained *1 certification under the ISO 9001 or ISO 13485 international Global RAQA Meeting in session standards. Of our 56 Group companies, 37 have received ISO 9001 certification and 18 have obtained ISO 13485 certification. Sysmex also conducts management reviews and audits of quality activities at its principal Group companies to confirm that the management system is operating properly. In addition to quality policy training for all employees, we conduct specialized quality education targeting specific departments and job types. In fiscal 2013, we conducted education related to U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Canadian medical device regulations. To share quality-related information throughout the Group and reinforce our systems, once a year we hold the Global RAQA (regulatory affairs/quality assurance) Meeting, at which Quality Assurance Department managers from Sysmex Corporation, the *2 regional headquarters in the Americas, EMEA , China and the Asia Pacific region, and affiliates gather. *1 ISO 13485: Quality management system for the design and manufacture of medical devices *2 EMEA: Europe, the Middle East, Africa Ensuring Product Quality Used in clinical testing, Sysmex’s products play a vital role in protecting people’s lives and good health. Being fully aware of this responsibility, Sysmex is making constant efforts to maintain and improve product quality by building various systems, not to mention complying with safety standards around the world at the design and development stages. In the product development stage, we verify product quality by setting five “quality gates” in the process leading up to market launch. Also, when we market products that are manufactured by others, we verify their quality by conducting periodic audits of the manufacturers and meticulously inspecting the products. The Sysmex global quality complaint processing system, which was implemented in April 2011, allows us to gather quality information in a timely way from markets around the world. When we receive information about a bug or malfunction, we immediately look into the cause and cease distribution of the product. To enhance this system, in fiscal 2013 we constructed an electronic system for the global sharing of information about malfunctions, corrective actions and preventive actions. 36 Safety and Quality Information Sharing Customer Feedback on Product Quality and Safety within the Company At Sysmex, information on product quality and safety is centrally controlled at the Vigilance Division. This division investigates and analyzes such information from customers, and feeds their analysis results to relevant customers while also sharing them with design, manufacturing and other related functions, so that these findings may be applied to quality improvement and product development. Product Quality and Vigilance Control System Collection and Repair Information Posted on Our Website Sysmex posts information about product collection and repair on its website under “Important Product Notices.” Calling Attention to Counterfeit Reagents To assure accurate testing results, Sysmex asks its customers at healthcare facilities to use Sysmex-branded instruments and reagents together. In recent years, however, reagents disguised as Sysmex reagents have been found in circulation in some Asian countries. The use of such counterfeit reagents cannot guarantee the reliability of testing results and, in some cases, can be harmful to patients’ health. Sysmex continuously monitors markets for counterfeit reagents. When they are discovered, we put out notices advertising this fact in local newspapers. We also seek cooperation from local governments and, when necessary, we bring cases to court. 37 After-Sales Support Responding to Inquiries Rapidly and Responsibly In Japan, Sysmex Corporation maintains a Customer Support Center, where experienced staff members with expert knowledge cater to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (separate agreement required). By creating a database containing maintenance histories and the details of past inquiries from customers to ensure quick reference, the center responds to inquiries and requests both quickly and carefully. In fiscal 2013, within this center we set up the VOC Group Department as a specialized unit to analyze customer input and feed this information back to related parties. Rather than just responding to problems, we also established the department in the aim of generating new added value and, in the future, contributing to the development of global initiatives. * We also maintain customer service contacts at our regional headquarters in the Americas, EMEA , China and the Asia Pacific region. * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East, Africa Inquiries to Customer Support Center Responding to inquiries at the Customer Support Center Utilizing ISO to Raise the Level of Quality Control *1 In fiscal 2013, Sysmex Corporation obtained ISO/IEC 17025 certification for the calibration *2 service it provides for hematology analyzers. Sysmex was also accredited for ISO/IEC 17043 for *3 *4 its SNCS and eQAPi external quality control programs for general testing, hematology, clinical chemistry, immunology and other testing. Sysmex is the first organization in Japan to receive this accreditation, not only in the clinical testing field but across all industries. These certifications enable Sysmex to provide customers with high-quality services as an ISO accredited Calibration Laboratory and Proficiency Testing Provider. *1 ISO/IEC 17025: International standard on general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories. *2 ISO/IEC 17043: International standard on conformity assessment—general requirements for proficiency testing. *3 SNCS: Refer to the above section entitled “Supporting Customers’ Quality Control on a Daily Basis.” *4 eQAPi: A large-scale real-time external quality assessment program. This service involves analyzing the results of measurement data in real time, which contributes to improving the accuracy of everyday testing. 38 Instruments Registered with the On-Line Quality Control Services (SNCS, eQAPi) (Worldwide, Cumulative) Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Surveys Sysmex Corporation conducts surveys of customers who attend its national seminars and exhibitions, asking them to evaluate Sysmex’s sales and service activities. We respond swiftly and make improvements in response to the requests and opinions we receive in this way, as part of our effort to enhance customer satisfaction. We visit in person customers who have purchase new products so that we can hear firsthand their opinions and impressions about product functions and operability, and feed this information back to the product development departments. In addition to these initiatives, we are creating a customer relationship management (CRM) system to comprehensively manage various customer-related information. We brought the sales-related portion of this system on line in fiscal 2013. Going forward, we will use this system to tailor our proposals more closely to individual customers. When customers visit us from overseas and tour our offices and factories, we take this as an opportunity to solicit their opinions. Group companies overseas also conduct their own customer satisfaction surveys. Boosting Customer Satisfaction by Increasing the Usability of User Manuals Sysmex made improvements to its user manuals in fiscal 2013, in the interest of improving customer satisfaction. We began this process by comparing the subjects of call center inquiries with the content contained in our user manuals to determine any issues that existed. Next, we trialed the improved user manuals and received evaluations from actual customers in Japan and overseas. Based on the feedback we received, we adopted processes to make our manuals even more operator-centered, creating user manuals that offer excellent usability. 39 Stable Supply Ensuring a Stable Supply of Products Indispensable to Treatment Sysmex maintains the right number of the correct types of products in the right locations in its inventories to ensure its ability to provide a stable supply of testing instruments. To meet anticipated increases in global demand, we have established the new i-Square instrument factory in the city of Kakogawa, Hyogo Prefecture. Construction on this facility was completed in June 2014. i-Square employs a seismically isolated structure to protect its production infrastructure and warehouse even in the event of an earthquake and allow stable supply to continue. We i-Square (new Kakogawa factory) also expanded the factory at Sysmex RA in fiscal 2013. We also endeavor to provide stable reagent supplies from various perspectives. Consequently, we have completed the practice of having Sysmex Corporation maintain control over appropriate inventory levels. To ensure our ability to provide reagents even in the face of a disaster, we are dispersing risk by producing reagents overseas and pursuing alternate supplies of raw materials. We continue to upgrade our facilities with a view to ensuring supply stability. In fiscal 2013, at Sysmex International Reagents, which produces reagents, we increased from one to two the number of chillers servicing the two refrigerators and two freezers used for storing reagents. We performed this upgrade in the interest of redundancy, providing a backup system for keeping reagent at the specified temperature and reducing the risk of becoming unable to ship reagent in the event of a breakdown that prevented us from keeping reagent at prescribed temperatures. Overview of Instrument Manufacturing Locations Sysmex Sysmex Sysmex Medica Sysmex RA Corporation Corporation (Expansion of (Expansion of (Existing (New factory) existing factory) existing factory) factory) Noguchi-cho, Noguchi-cho, Yumesaki-cho, Hirokano-mura, Location Kakogawa, Hyogo Kakogawa, Hyogo Himeji, Hyogo Shiojiri, Nagano Prefecture Prefecture Prefecture Prefecture Site area 2 2 2 2 Approx. 30,000m Approx. 12,000m Approx. 7,300m Approx. 6,100m Floor space Approx. 20,000m2 Approx. 9,800m 2 Approx. 4,400m 2 Approx. 6,000m 2 Investment ￥3.9 billion ￥0.5 billion ￥0.3 billion Main High-end models Compact models High-end units Peripheral equipment products for IVD instruments 40 Scientific Activities Holding Scientific Seminars for Clinical Professionals Sysmex keeps clinical professionals updated on scientific information by sponsoring seminars and study sessions for doctors and medical technologists. In June 2013, we held the 36th Sysmex Scientific Seminar, connecting via satellite links four conference halls—in Kobe, Tokyo, Sendai and Fukuoka. This conference, themed “The Wonderland of Hematogenesis and Immune Tissues—Filling the Gap between Pathology Testing and Blood Testing, and 36th Sysmex Scientific Seminar Promoting a Deeper Understanding of the Progress in Diagnostics and Treatment Technologies,” was attended by more than 1,300 people. Publishing Scholarly Magazines and Illustrated Books That Promote Education and Awareness We distribute the Sysmex Journal International (Japanese, English and Chinese editions) to medical institutions and university libraries in more than 100 countries throughout the world, thus keeping many clinical professionals updated on current clinical medicine and healthcare testing. We also produce an illustrated book to promote education and awareness of illness and testing. We distribute this book to hospitals and clinics, which place it in waiting rooms and other locations. Because the book features easy-to-understand explanations in narrative form of the characteristics of illnesses, as well as their testing and treatment, it draws the interest of children and others who have little knowledge about medicine. 41 We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, provide employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. Respecting Human Rights and Diversity Sysmex Group Compliance Code (Excerpt) 8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety We will support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Core Labour Standards, and respect the fundamental human rights of each person and will not infringe thereon by such acts as discrimination, harassment, etc. We will also comply with applicable laws and regulations, endeavor to improve occupational health and safety, and will not force any unfair labor practice on the personnel of the company. 8-1 Prohibition of discrimination and harassments We must not discriminate with regard to a person’s sex, age, nationality, race, origin, belief, religion, social status, lineage, illness or physical disability, nor must we behave in a manner that ignores the dignity of other people, including such acts as sexual harassment, power harassment, etc. 8-2 Privacy protection We must acknowledge the diverse values of people as individuals, and must respect privacy of each and every person. We must not unnecessarily disclose private information we acquire in the course of work to any other third person and must not seek to obtain private information unnecessarily. 8-3 Elimination of forced labor and child labor We must not engage in unjust labor practices by detaining someone against his or her will. We must not hire children below the minimum age of employment set forth by applicable laws or regulations. 8-4 Assurance of safety and health at workplaces We must adhere to laws and regulations related to safety and health practices so that every employee may work with peace of mind, and must maintain and enhance the mental as well as physical health of every employee so that a safe and comfortable working environment can be established. 42 Embracing Diverse Personnel through Diversity and Inclusion Sysmex Corporation has evolved from the practice of “diversity,” which simply welcomes diverse human resources, to the more extensive practice of “diversity and inclusion.” This approach involves creating a working environment that is amenable to a wide variety of human resources, recruiting and stationing them without regard for nationality, race, gender or physical disability. Endorsing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Core Labor Standards and Other International Standards Related to Human Rights Sysmex has formulated guidelines describing particularly important rules and behaviors for compliance with basic respect for human rights as indicated in “8. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety” of Sysmex’s Compliance Code. This code clarifies a variety of discriminatory actions that are not tolerated; prohibits sexual harassment, power harassment and other acts that ignore human rights; underscores prohibitions on child labor and forced or compulsory labor; and seeks to ensure a safe and comfortable workplace environment. We also conduct training programs as needed to ensure the code is put into practice. In fiscal 2013, we conducted training for management specialists on the themes of harassment, labor management and the Worker Dispatching Act. In May 2014, we updated our compliance code, addressing global human rights issues as a global company. We clearly spelled out our endorsement of international standards related to human rights, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and core ILO labor standards. Consultation and Reporting Systems Related to Human Rights Sysmex has set up “Campanula Lines” as an internal reporting system for Group companies in Japan to enable consultation related to sexual harassment and power harassment, among other topics. We also have internal reporting systems in place at Group companies overseas. Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities Sysmex Corporation encourages the employment of people with disabilities. Targeting long-term employment, we design working conditions to maximize individuals’ aptitudes and skills. As of March 31, 2014, our employment of people with disabilities was 1.94% of the total. As the statutory level is 2.0%, effective from April 2013, we are stepping up efforts to reach this level. In addition to focusing on the hiring of people with disabilities, we are introducing Ostomates (toilets for people who have had colostomies or urostomies) and other barrier-free facilities, each month a Safety and Health Committee member visits workplaces to confirm that facilities are easily navigable by wheelchair. These are examples of our ongoing efforts to create a working environment that is amenable to people with disabilities. Employing Seniors—System for Reemploying PostMandatory Retirement Age Workers Sysmex Corporation’s mandatory retirement age is 60, but we have in place a system for rehiring until age 65 people who have retired at the mandatory retirement age and still wish to work. During fiscal 2013, we rehired 16 employees who had retired at the mandatory age according to the terms of our internal rules. 43 Employee Evaluation and Treatment Equitably Evaluating Personnel Based on Abilities and Accomplishments Sysmex Corporation values the spirit of independence and challenge, provides employees with opportunities for self-fulfillment and growth, and rewards them for their accomplishments. Based on the principle of fair treatment, Sysmex’s basic approach toward evaluation is to “reward employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments.” In addition to evaluating employees for their successes, we evaluate the processes leading to employee growth (competency evaluations). To achieve fairness and ensure that employees understand their evaluations, we show employees their evaluation results and their superiors’ comments. Basic Principles of the Personnel Management System 1. Ensuring long-term employment Establishing a double-linear-type competence-based rating frame that enables a diversity of employees to maximize their skills, and providing opportunities for self-realization and growth 2. Promoting the development and cultivation of diverse human resources Establishing competence-based rating standards and promoting cultivation of human resources and normalization of career advancement through clarification of promotion criteria Evaluating not only accomplishments but also the processes of producing achievements (realization capability) in order to promote human resource development and the reform of corporate culture 3. Rewarding employees for capabilities that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments Simplifying the relationship between evaluation and reward. Creating a remuneration structure that is easy for everyone to understand and that rewards employees in accordance with their contribution, role, competency and accomplishments Supporting Employee Career Design Sysmex Corporation employs a voluntary reporting system for all employees. The system affords each employee with the opportunity to consider their own career directions and life plan, as well as to affect their own skills development and placement according to the content of their reports. In fiscal 2013, some 97% of employees used this system. Personnel Systems at Overseas Regional Headquarters * Our regional headquarters for the Americas, EMEA , China and Asia Pacific have in place personnel systems in line with the legal frameworks and cultures of these regions. In general, we use management by objectives approaches to evaluate personnel. To some degree, we also employ competency evaluations in the Americas and Asia Pacific. We use talent management education for cultivating personnel and conduct level-based training. In addition, these headquarters have in place an employee exchange program with Sysmex Corporation in Japan to promote global personnel intercourse and training. * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa 44 Introducing Internal Awards Systems to Motivate Employees In fiscal 2011, Sysmex introduced the Group CEO Award system for recognizing individuals, organizations or groups that contribute most significantly to the realization of the Sysmex Way, our Group corporate philosophy, sharing these achievements throughout the Company each year. We provide awards for one individual and one group. Sysmex Corporation has introduced a patent award system that rewards employees who contribute to the acquisition of patents. We revised this system in fiscal 2013 to boost the motivation of R&D engineers and heighten awareness of intellectual property, increasing the types of prizes to three. The first of these is a Patent Grand Prize/Patent Prize of Distinction for inventors whose patents are recognized as excellent. The second, the Patent Meister, is for engineers who are responsible for multiple patents. The third type is the Filing Commemoration Prize, which goes to people filing a patented invention for the first time. We also present a Quality Award for success in quality improvements. Aiming to Equalize Employment Opportunities Sysmex Corporation recruits new employees based the evaluation of individuals, without regard for gender, nationality, race, age, employment history or disability status. Specifically, we instituted year-round hiring to offer equal opportunities to people who had already graduated or had studied overseas and therefore might be at a disadvantage. In fiscal 2013, this resulted in our hiring of 65 graduates and three potential candidates. To ensure our ability to recruit personnel around the world, we conduct Company briefings and interviews overseas, as well as conducting Web-based briefings and interviews. In October 2013, we welcomed three people of non-Japanese nationality into the Company, and additional six in April 2014. Hiring Contract and Temporary Employees to Full-Time Positions Sysmex Corporation actively hires contract employees and temporary employees as full-time personnel. We have clarified our internal regulations for hiring people working on limited, fixed-term contracts, offering them fair opportunities for promotion. We put this information on our intranet to encourage thorough understanding of these rules. When renewing temporary employees’ contracts, for employees that meet certain conditions we notify temporary placement agencies of the possibility of employing such personnel directly. Through the ongoing application of these systems, in fiscal 2013 we promoted 13 contract and temporary employees to full-time positions. Promotions to Full-Time Positions (Sysmex Corporation) Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Contract employees 13 10 12 Temporary employees 10 7 1 Total 23 17 13 45 Focus on Supporting a Work-Life Balance Support for Both Work and Child-Rearing Sysmex Corporation offers a variety of systems, such as childcare leave and shorter work hour systems, to ensure that parents can spend as much time with their children as possible. In support of childrearing, we allow employees to take accumulated paid leave to care sick children in addition to offering a flex-time system. We have set up Sysmex Kids Park, an in-house daycare center that accepts babies and toddlers, at Technopark, our R&D center. The center offers short-term as well as full-time daycare, so that employees whose spouses work on In-house daycare center, Sysmex a part-time basis or who find it difficult to take care of their Kids Park children due to caretakers’ illness, bereavement or other circumstances may also temporarily utilize the service. Furthermore, we provide a reemployment system to enable employees who were forced to suspend their career paths due to child-raising with opportunities to resume their work. In recognition of its planned implementation of such systems, in fiscal 2011 Sysmex Corporation received the next-generation support certification logo (nicknamed “Kurumin”) from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. In April 2014, to encourage male employees to take child nursing leave we revised our special leave for employees around Next-generation support the time of their spouses’ childbirth. Whereas our system certification logo (nicknamed previously allowed for five days to be taken within the monthly “Kurumin”) following childbirth, the new system allows employees to take two days within one month and another three days at any point within one year. We provide easy-to-understand explanations of these systems on a dedicated intranet site. We also send individual emails concerning programs that we particularly wish to promote. Users of Systems to Support a Work-Life Balance (fiscal 2013) System Description Users Shorter work hour system * 51 Until the end of third grade of elementary school for child rearing Leave of absence system Child nursing leave prescribed by law, available after 61 (childcare leave, one year of age and up to two years childbearing leave) Accumulated paid leave Accumulated paid leave for up to 10 days of annual 23 system paid vacation from previous years can be taken for child nursing or short-term nursing purposes Reemployment system System to reemploy people who previously left the 3 enrollment Company for childcare or nursing-related reasons In-house daycare system Daycare center provides care for infants and children 33 children up to entry into elementary school, which is available for full-time or temporary childcare. * From fiscal 2014, this system has been extended to children through their sixth year of elementary school. 46 Supporting Return to the Workplace Following Child Nursing Leave and Nursing Care Leave In February 2013, Sysmex Corporation introduced a new support system to facilitate the smooth return to work of employees who have taken childrearing or nursing care leave, and the employee is loaned a tablet or notebook PC that he or she can use to connect to the Sysmex email system and intranet. Three months prior to returning to work the employee on leave can begin viewing “in-house only” company information. We require employees to consult with their superiors before commencing use of this system. This provides an opportunity to communicate about working styles after returning to work before that time is actually reached. Being cut off from the workplace can be an obstacle to a later smooth return. However, this set-up allows the employee to access Company information at home in real-time, and enables better communications with colleagues through email. This IT-based system helps the employee get through the leave period without experiencing the torment of feelings of alienation and loneliness, and also allows the employee to play an active role at the workplace upon his or her return. Aiming for an Even More Comfortable Working Environment In addition to a childcare support system, Sysmex Corporation has in place a number of other systems to help employees realize a work—life balance from various perspectives. We allow employees to use accumulated paid leave to attend hospital consultations for parents and family members, as well as to accompany family during hospital stays. We also offer a reemployment system to assist employees resuming work after having been forced to suspend their careers due to nursing needs. Furthermore, we have introduced a cafeteria-type plan that meets diverse employee needs by enabling them to choose from a menu of welfare options. In fiscal 2013, we introduced a new attendance management system with enhanced functions to enable working-hour control over leave taking. We also conducted “positive-off” training, which encourages more varied working styles for workers ranging from management specialists to general employees. In instances in which both husband and wife are Sysmex Corporation employees, we offer the Leave System to Accompany Spouse Posted Overseas that allows the spouse not being posted overseas to accompany the one who is, and return to regular employment upon returning to Japan. Furthermore, in April 2014 we reorganized our leave system, adding new leave categories for undergoing fertility treatment, making donations or taking part in volunteer activities. We have introduced a nursing care leave stipend of ￥100,000 per month, available for up to one year, for employees who take leave to attend a family member who requires nursing care. Employee feedback has provided valuable instruction on introducing systems and upgrading our facilities in efforts to improve the working environment. At Technopark and certain other locations, we hold regular Liaison Conferences on Operational Improvements to elicit employees’ opinions on issues encountered in the workplace. 47 Cooperation between Labor and Management Aligned to Create a Better Workplace All full-time employees of Sysmex Corporation, except those holding managerial posts and some in back-office operations, are members of the Sysmex Union, the in-house labor union. In fiscal 2013, membership accounted for 67.7% of employees. Sysmex Corporation and the Sysmex Union work together to develop systems that help employees maintain their work-life balance. We conducted collective bargaining in May 2013, with opinions exchanged concerning the realization of a rewarding workplace. We held 11 additional council meetings between labor and management, covering topics such as personnel evaluations, managing working hours, making compensation systems fairer and improving the workplace environment. Employee Opinions Reflected in Management Sysmex conducts a Corporate Culture Survey of employees of all Group companies in Japan every two years, and we analyze replies to questions on over 100 categories to gain an understanding of unspoken rules and values within the organization, as well as of the degree of effectiveness of various measures. This is useful in discovering and resolving the issues surrounding the Group. * We perform employee satisfaction surveys across all regions, including the Americas, EMEA , China and the Asia Pacific. Group company Sysmex International Reagents has in place a system whereby employees form teams to draft proposals on topics such as approaches to making work improvements, with annual events to announce the successes of these small-group activities. * EMEA: Europe, the Middle East and Africa Health and Safety Considerations Maintaining and Improving Employees’ Health Sysmex Corporation encourages employees to undergo thorough physical examinations and cancer tests for women, in addition to regular health checkups, for the early detection of illness. Annual Kokoro no Health Checks are also performed annually to confirm mental health and to uncover any harassment-related situations. We provide channels for health consultations throughout the Company, and have in place systems where employees can meet with industrial physicians and public health nurses. We also have established an employee assistance program (EAP), enabling employees to seek help easily. As welfare facilities to encourage health maintenance, on the grounds of the Solution Center—the Company’s customer service headquarters—Sysmex Corporation provides sports grounds and tennis courts, as well as a gymnasium with training equipment. We hold events and seminars as needed to raise employee awareness of physical health maintenance. In fiscal 2013, we offered healthy menu options at the employee cafeteria and had managerial dieticians conduct health seminars and health consultations. Preventing Overwork Recognizing its potential to harm mental and physical health, Sysmex Corporation concentrates on preventing overwork. In April 2013, we put in place internal standards for working outside regular hours or on holidays that are stricter than the guidelines set by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Employees who exceed these standards are required to communicate this fact to their superiors, submit a voluntary check form and, if necessary, meet with an industrial physician. 48 Occupational Health and Safety To ensure the health and safety of its workers, Sysmex Corporation has formulated Safety and Health Regulations. To foster a safe and good working environment, we have also established a Safety and Health Committee at each of our offices, chaired by the executive at the head of that office, who is a board member. Employees are given training on emergency measures, how to evacuate when an accident occurs and how to handle machinery and raw materials that are potentially dangerous. We are also developing citizen emergency life-saving technicians. Frequency and Severity of Work-Related Injuries (Sysmex Corporation) Human Resources Development Promoting Systematic and Effective Human Resource Development In 2013, Sysmex introduced a new human resource development system that links “assignment and transfer,” “evaluation and feedback” and “cultivation and education” to cultivate human resources in a systematic and effective manner. The education and training program comprises three types of training—selective, rank-based and elective—designed to nurture personnel in a planned and gradual manner. In fiscal 2013, employees underwent an average of 11.0 hours of training, and training expenses * per employee averaged ￥122 thousand . * This includes training provided by human resource departments and excludes certain types of training like self-development and related to each divisions specialized work. 49 Three Core Training Systems Training Type Objective Selective training Cultivate global leaders Cultivate future management personnel Rank-based training Acquire the minimum level of understanding and expertise in management and issue resolution required at each level Promote communication between departments Elective training Obtain practical expertise, knowledge and skills on business execution (Sysmex College) Gain various types of business management expertise Enhancing the Skills of Employees in Manufacturing Workplaces Enhancing the technical skills of employees who are involved in manufacturing is important for Sysmex, which produces medical equipment. Accordingly, Sysmex Corporation has established the Monozukuri Training Center, which offers training throughout the year, to provide hands-on training in this area. Training underway at the Monozukuri Training Center Examples of Activities Overseas * Obtaining Certification under OHSAS 18001 , an International Standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (Brazil) Sysmex Brazil has acquired OHSAS 18001 certification, an international standard for occupational health and safety management systems. * OHSAS 18001: This standard, issued in 1999 based on BS 8800, which was, developed by the British Standards Institute (BSI) in 1996, consists of some 30 certification bodies and standardization organizations in various countries. Creating an Open Corporate Culture (Germany) Sysmex Europe creates many opportunities for communication among employees, such as marketing meetings, function meetings, and unit meetings. Each season brings events in which all employees can participate, as well as a Christmas party, all of which constitute good chances for in-house communication. Sysmex Europe has also adopted an open-door policy, and encourages employees to speak frankly with managers. Employee event 50 We deliver commitment to our client companies through broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. CSR Promotion throughout the Value Chain Putting in Place a Procurement Policy that Takes CSR into Account Sysmex Corporation has formulated a procurement policy that expresses its basic considerations on selecting suppliers and conducting procurement transactions, and is promoting its deployment across the value chain. In fiscal 2013, we revised the policy to promote CSR through procurement. We also added a clause about formulating business continuity plans (BCP) as befits a company that is developing its business globally in the healthcare field, and another on promoting business activities and CSR in compliance with the laws, regulations and social conventions of host countries. Going forward, we will also promote consideration for human rights in the supply chain. In accordance with this revision, we asked new procurement partners to complete a survey, to which we had added questions on CSR-related topics such as occupational health and safety and human rights. During fiscal 2013, we conducted CSR surveys of four new potential business partners. 51 Procurement Policy In “shaping the advancement of healthcare,” the Mission set forth in the Sysmex Way corporate philosophy, we deliver commitment to our business partners through equitable and fair procurement activities. We also strive to be a company that can grow in step with our trading partners in a spirit of mutual trust and encouragement. Operating in strict compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts, and adhering to high ethical standards, we carry out consistent procurement of components and raw materials that meet the levels of quality required by healthcare providers. We closely follow these policies in our endeavors to supply products that customers worldwide can use with confidence. Similarly, we hope that our business partners will cooperate with us in the following seven areas as we continue to create and enhance unique and creative values. We ask our valued business partners to: 1. Assure quality to the requisite degree for healthcare products 2. Build a system for reliable supply 3. Refine technological capabilities that contribute to the development of healthcare 4. Create stable business foundations and formulate business continuity plans (BCP) 5. Promote business activities and CSR in compliance with the laws, regulations and social conventions of host countries 6. Carry out environmental management to help conserve the global natural environment 7. Supply products at reasonable prices and engage in aggressive cost-reduction programs Revised in March 2014 Reinforcing Relations with Procurement Partners We strive to enhance relations with our procurement partners so we can conduct business together based on their understanding our business directions and procurement policy. In fiscal 2013, as part of our 45th anniversary activities we held the Sysmex Supplier Conference Commemorating the 45th Anniversary of Establishment. We expressed our appreciation for the services rendered by our procurement partners, and provided an Sysmex Supplier Conference opportunity to think together as manufacturing partners about Commemorating 45th business continuity plans (BCP) and other topics. Anniversary of Establishment Aiming to Improve the Quality of Supplied Parts and Raw Materials Our ability to provide high-quality products to customers in a stable manner depends on maintaining or improving the quality of the raw materials and parts we procure. We prepared a Quality Assurance Agreement that defines the quality requirements in 2009, and after also preparing a handbook to improve understanding of the content we have since been concluding this agreement with suppliers. We conduct quality audits without fail on new procurement partners to ensure that quality management systems are operating appropriately. For existing procurement partners, we inspect products for quality when they are delivered, conducting quality audits if deemed necessary as a corrective or precautionary measure. 52 Ensuring Thorough Compliance in Transactions Conducting Internal Awareness Activities to Ensure Compliance with ProcurementRelated Legislation We have in place an electronic procurement system (Sysmex Trade Mission, or STM). In addition to preventing the reduction of payments to inappropriate levels, as well as avoiding product returns, each year we conduct training on this system. In fiscal 2013, we conducted this training for 25 people, including people newly assigned to a department that places orders for R&D materials and new employees. During the training, we highlighted points to bear in mind when ordering materials and provided explanations about complying with legislation such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. Explaining Policies on Compliance to Distributors Sysmex rigorously ensures compliance to build sustainable and fruitful partnerships with its distributors. We prohibit employees from abusing any dominant bargaining position, offering excessive entertainment, presents or the like when dealing with distributors. At the same time, we take advantage of opportunities presented by product briefings, which are held on occasions such as new launches, to share our policies and activities with our distributors, helping them to deepen their understanding of the importance of compliance. Distributor meeting (China) We engage in continuous communications with our overseas distributors through regular meetings at their locations as well as teleconferencing and meetings. 53 Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve the robustness and transparency of our management policies, while promoting information disclosure and close communications. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased shareholder value. Information Disclosure General Meeting and Informal Meetings for Shareholders Valuing opportunities for direct dialogue with our shareholders, we make an effort to encourage the participation of as many shareholders as possible at the General Meeting of Shareholders. After the general meeting, we hold informal meetings to promote interaction with shareholders. In fiscal 2013, the theme of the meeting was “Sysmex, instilling confidence.” After using panels and video to provide explanations about our business and IR activities, personnel measures and global social contribution Informal meeting for activities, as well as third-party evaluations of Sysmex, we shareholders opened the floor for comments and questions. We accommodate shareholders who are unable to attend on the day by enabling them to exercise their voting rights in writing or over the Internet. Furthermore, we contribute to the readability of convocation and resolution notices. We also prepare Englishlanguage versions for overseas shareholders, print color convocation notices and post the same information on our corporate website. Further Enhancing Information Disclosure We make it a rule to disclose any information that we believe will affect investment decisions in light of our own standards, as well as to observe applicable laws and regulations concerning securities trading and the Rules on Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information by the Issuer of Listed Security and the Like established by stock exchanges. In addition to biannual briefings on financial results (after year-end and after the second quarter), since the third quarter of fiscal 2011 Sysmex has held a conference call following the announcement of business results in the first and third quarters in an effort to further enhance information disclosure. 54 External Evaluation Chosen for Excellence in Disclosure to Individual Shareholders for Second Consecutive Year In fiscal 2013, Sysmex received an award for the second consecutive year. In the 2013 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure, sponsored by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan, we were selected for excellence in disclosure to individual investors. Out of the more than 200 companies evaluated, we were ranked second. We were given high marks for our chairman and CEO’s explanations in his own words to individual investors at the Awards for Excellence in Company’s briefing meetings. On the content front, we were Corporate Disclosure award commended for the simple format that facilitated understanding ceremony of our business model. In addition, we received strong accolades for video distribution via our website. 55 Basic Policy Sysmex established its Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy in May 2012, indicating how the Company will pursue behaviors and commitment as a good corporate citizen. Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy Sysmex actively carries out corporate philanthropic activities to promote a healthy society and vibrant community, and also facilitates our employees’ personal participation in volunteer efforts. Contribution to a healthy society Sysmex actively utilizes its resources in the healthcare field to carry out philanthropic activities and promote the building of a healthy society. Cooperation toward a vibrant local community Sysmex acts as a responsible and socially-conscious corporate citizen by cooperating with the local community through donations, sponsorships and involvement in philanthropic programs. Facilitation of employees’ volunteer efforts Sysmex will facilitate employees’ participation in volunteer efforts as citizens of the world, members of Sysmex group that contribute to healthcare in the world, and emphasize community involvement and development. Established May 2012 Systems to Facilitate Employees’ Efforts toward Social Contribution We introduced the Social Contribution Point System in April 2014 to encourage employees to take part in social contribution activities. Under this system, employees earn points for participating in social contribution activities, as well as social contribution events sponsored by the Company. They can redeem the points they earn for items such as emergency medical kits, antimalarial drugs, vaccines to be donated to developing countries. This approach allows employees to decide what donations they wish to make. Through systems such as these, we strive to play a role in encouraging employees to take the initiative in participating in social contribution activities as a member of society. 56 Participation in the Kobe Medical Industry Development Project The Kobe Medical Industry Development Project aims to create a focal point among healthcare industries in Kobe through industry–government–academia cooperation. Sysmex Corporation established the Sysmex Asano Laboratory in January 2007 within the Translational Research Informatics Center, one of the core facilities of this project. In March 2014, the name of this laboratory was revised to Sysmex IBRI. By turning this into an open lab that promotes collaborative research between various medical institutions and companies, we aim to further expand its scale of research, while maintaining immunological disease diagnosis technologies at its core. Funding of University Courses Since fiscal 2004, Sysmex Corporation has contributed funds to a course at the Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine. The course, entitled “Assessment of Clinical Testing (Sysmex),” consists in research into new clinical testing technologies, including the research and study of autoimmune diseases such as connective tissue disease and rheumatism. Advances will continue to be made in the development and verification of the utility of new clinical testing methods, bringing about the realization of personalized medicine, which is one of the challenges of recent years. In addition to achieving accuracy in diagnoses, this research also contributes to the establishment of methodologies that can provide patients with efficient treatment with few side effects, and we expect the research to make significant contributions to society. The Nakatani Foundation of Electronic Measuring Technology Advancement, established to promote the development of electronic measuring instruments, became a public interest incorporated foundation in 2012 and changed its name to the Nakatani Foundation for Advancement of Measuring Technologies in Biomedical Engineering. This foundation provides awards and grants for research in the field of biomedical measurements and related technologies. The current fiscal year marks the foundation’s 30th anniversary of establishment. In commemoration, the foundation expanded its research grants and extended its grant-giving activities to include grants for overseas study and to promote science education at the junior and senior high school level. From the time of its launch through fiscal 2013, the foundation has provided 321 grants amounting to a cumulative ￥603.04 million. Continuing to Support Blood Donations Sysmex, which provides the testing instruments used for blood donations, is also an active participant in blood donations. Several times each year, employees at Technopark, the Kakogawa Factory, the Ono Factory, the Seishin Factory and other facilities cooperate with the blood donation activities of our local Red Cross center in Hyogo Prefecture. In recognition of these efforts, in August 2013 the Kakogawa Factory received a gold merit plaque and the Ono Factory a silver plaque from the Japanese Red Cross Society as part of its fiscal 2013 Hyogo Prefecture blood donation merit awards. The Gold merit plaque received by the Japanese Red Cross Society provides these awards in recognition Kakogawa Factory of major contributions, the gold and silver signifying 20 years and 15 years of continued blood donation activities, respectively. 57 Conducting a Training Course for Citizen Emergency Life-Saving Technicians Each year, Sysmex Corporation holds a training course for citizen emergency life-saving technicians at Technopark or the Solution Center. Certified by the city of Kobe First Aid Support Team (FAST), this course is designed to train people in appropriate responses in the event of illness or injury. In November 2013, instructors from a nearby welfare center came to the Solution Center to conduct this training. The 18 participants underwent practical training on cardiopulmonary Training course for citizen resuscitation procedures, including heart massage, artificial emergency life-saving technicians respiration and use of an automated external defibrillator (AED). Participating in International Cooperation Efforts Sysmex takes part in international cooperation efforts by Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) by providing materials and instruments (either by extending yen credit or through outright donation) aimed at raising the level of healthcare in emerging and developing countries. Every year, Sysmex hosts trainees visiting Japan through JICA programs at its research facilities. In fiscal 2013, three times JICA trainees interns from Africa, Oceania, Central America and other regions underwent training at our facilities, including the Solution Center and Kakogawa Factory. 58 Contributions in Hyogo Prefecture, Sysmex’s Headquarters Location Holding Various Community Events Every year, Sysmex Corporation invites community residents to its offices to strengthen its relationship with the local community. In May 2013, we held a Technopark Festa, where participants could attend health-related lectures and experiencing measurement of estimated hemoglobin levels. Some 700 visitors took part in these and other activities. In fiscal 2013, we also opened the Minato Ijinkan to the public for two days from November 30, 2013. A historical edifice constructed in 1906, the structure had become decrepit and was closed to the public in 2008. In September 2012, Sysmex rented the building, performed renovations and now uses it as a guest house. In addition to making the building open to the public, we held a photo exhibit introducing the history of Kobe and arranged for other enjoyable events. Some 250 people visited. We plan to open Minato Ijinkan to the public on a regular basis going forward. Technopark Festa Photo exhibit at the Minato Ijinkan Local Community Development Support Sysmex Corporation supports local development through donations and sponsorship. Kobe Luminarie Sysmex is a regular sponsor of Kobe Luminarie, an annual illumination event that originated as a memorial for the victims of the 1995 Great Hanshin−Awaji Earthquake and which is held in the hopes of reconstructing/restoring Kobe and all of Hyogo Prefecture. The Kobe Oji Zoo Animal Sponsor Program The program invites individuals and businesses to support the zoo by sponsoring particular species of animal at the institution. We elected to support the giant pandas, among the most popular of the zoo’s inhabitants. Sponsoring the KOBE JAZZ FESTIVAL Sysmex sponsors the KOBE JAZZ FESTIVAL, which aims to spread Kobe’s jazz culture and cultivate the jazz musicians of the future. The festival includes concerts by professional jazz artists, as well as jazz bands from local junior and senior high schools and universities. 59 Environmental Contribution An Eco Team formed by Sysmex Corporation employees who are interested in environmental preservation activities has been conducting various activities since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2013, we continued with a project ongoing since fiscal 2010 involving afforestation on the Tsurukabuto Forest on Mt. Rokko, in Hyogo Prefecture. In addition, we conducted cleanups around our office locations, working to improve the community. Group companies also dispatch employee volunteers to perform Tsurukabuto Forest afforestation cleanup activities in nearby areas. project Supporting the Education of Local Youth Sysmex Corporation actively hosts company tours for local junior and senior high schools, universities and schools for laboratory technologists, and we cooperate in the Try-yaru Week workplace experience program held annually for Hyogo Prefecture junior high school students. We also take part in the Science Fair in Hyogo, an event participated in by companies, universities and research institutions, at which math and science high school students in Hyogo Prefecture annually present their research results. 6th Science Fair in Hyogo At the 6th Science Fair in Hyogo, held in February 2014, we provided a health check experience that involved ASTRIM, our product that measures estimated hemoglobin levels without the need for blood sampling. We also put up posters explaining our business. The ASTRIM proved popular, being tried by nearly 200 people. Other Community Contributions Hosting Student Interns Sysmex accepts ambitious students on internship programs every year from Japan and other countries in which the Company conducts business. In the past, we have hosted student interns from South Korea, China and Russia. In May 2013, we invited six students from India and Thailand to visit Japan, tour our factories, view instrument maintenance and experience logistics operations. These efforts provide opportunities for Sysmex to gain the interest of students overseas. We will continue such internship programs as part of our efforts to foster regional development in tandem with the growth of our business. Student interns from India Student interns from Thailand 60 As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact our society today. Environmental Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. Core behavior 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. 2. We strive to provide eco-friendly products and services while giving careful thought of environmental issues throughout their life cycles. 3. We strive to conserve energy and resources, reduce wastes, promote recycle and properly control chemical substances in all business activities. 4. We comply with all applicable national or regional environmental regulations, standards and agreements. 5. We continually improve our environmental conservation activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize the impact our products have on the environment. 6. We contribute to society through environmental conservation activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. 7. We establish environmental objectives and targets consistent with this environmental policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised May 2009 61 Environmental Management System Environmental Policy By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation of a fulfilling and healthy society. Core Behaviors 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. 2. We strive to provide eco-friendly products and services while giving careful thought of environmental issues throughout their life cycles. 3. We strive to conserve energy and resources, reduce wastes, promote recycle and properly control chemical substances in all business activities. 4. We comply with all applicable national or regional environmental regulations, standards and agreements. 5. We continually improve our environmental conservation activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize the impact our products have on the environment. 6. We contribute to society through environmental conservation activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. 7. We establish environmental objectives and targets consistent with this environmental policy, and measure our performance against them. Revised May 2009 Promoting Environmental Activities Sysmex is pursuing groupwide to achive the targets set in the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020), which was set in fiscal 2010 and revised in fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013, we established Global Environmental Management Regulations to reinforce Group environmental management by clarifying the roles and responsibilities of Group companies. We have assigned a senior executive officer and senior managing director of Sysmex Corporation as environmental management officer to oversee and control Group environmental management. We have in place a global environmental management system under which we promote environmental activities in individual regions and fields of operation under his instruction. 62 Acquiring ISO 14001 Certification Sysmex is working toward the acquisition of ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management, for the Group’s principal affiliated companies. As of April 30, 2014, 19 companies had obtained this certification. In fiscal 2013, we integrated our certifications for ISO 14001 in Japan, adding Sysmex RA and Sysmex Medica certifications to those for Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents. By centralizing the environmental activities of Group companies in Japan and seeing the progress situation and issues of activities as a Group, we aim to enhance our management. Acquiring ISO 14001 Certification Company Name Site Acquired in Sysmex Corporation Kakogawa Factory April 2000 Technopark February 2002 Head office February 2002 Solution Center November 2005 Sysmex International Reagents Ono Factory March 2001 Seishin Factory June 2007 Sysmex Medica March 2001 Sysmex RA June 2008 Sysmex Europe Neumunster Factory November 1999 Head office October 2011 Sysmex Deutschland October 2011 Sysmex Brazil May 2006 Sysmex America December 2009 Sysmex Reagents America December 2009 Sysmex New Zealand May 2011 Sysmex India March 2012 Sysmex Asia Pacific April 2012 Sysmex Middle East March 2013 Sysmex Wuxi June 2013 Conducting Environmental Auditing In fiscal 2013, the four Group companies for which certification in Japan has been integrated conducted evaluation of compliance for the environmental laws and regulations as self-assessments and internal environmental audit, and got external environmental audit by a third-party auditing organization. The internal environmental audits found two nonconformities, while the external environmental audits discovered three, and corrective actions for these nonconformities were promptly completed. Managing Poisonous and Deleterious Substances In February 2014, Sysmex International Reagents Co., Ltd., discovered that 46.2g of sodium azide had been lost at its Seishin Factory. The company quickly mounted an internal investigation but was unable to locate the missing substance. As sodium azide, which is used in the manufacture of diagnostic reagents, is subject to the Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act, the company promptly filed a police report indicating the loss. To prevent a recurrence, we will reinforce our control structure. 63 Plans and Objectives Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020)/ Mid-term Environmental Objectives Sysmex Eco-Vision Mid-term 2020 Long-term Environmental Activities/Achievements Environmental Objectives in FY 2013 Objectives(FY2020) (FY2013 – 2015) (Revised Edition) Promoted efforts toward RoHS directive compliance Promoted product development for reduced power consumption Promoted a switchover of protein raw materials used in Promote reagents from animal Promote eco-friendly derivatives to artificially eco-friendly products and service synthesized protein products and models Promoted reduction in service models materials used in product Environment containers and packaging consciousness Promoted expansion of remote in product life service in Asian regions for cycle process CO emissions reduction 2 through improved service efficiency Reduce carbon Reduce carbon dioxide dioxide emissions emissions for logistics by for logistics by For exports, promoted shift 50% (per unit of freight 30% (per unit of from air to ocean transport ton-km: Japan domestic freight ton-km: Result in fiscal 2013: 0.15 and inter-regional Japan domestic *1 Base year (fiscal 2010): 0.14 transportation) and inter-regional *1 Up 3% against base year transportation) 64 Installed equipment (including thorough air conditioning controls, installation of energy efficient fluorescent lighting, placement of motion detectors to activate staircase lighting) Reduce greenhouse as measures against global Reduce greenhouse gas gas emissions at warming (each business office) emissions at business business offices by Purchased electricity from offices by 50%(per unit 25% (per unit of power companies using *2 consolidated renewables (Sysmex Europe) of consolidated sales) *2 Reduced CO emissions by sales) 2 using solar power (Sysmex Europe Neumünster Factory) Result in fiscal 2013: 8.19 Environment Base year (fiscal 2008): consciousness 10.07 at business Down 20% against base year offices Conducted review of waste disposal companies Achieve a recycle (Technopark) Achieve a recycle rate of rate of 90% or Reuse of packaged on 93% or higher at all *3 higher at all outsourced items (Sysmex business offices *3 business offices Wuxi) Result in fiscal 2013: 88.9% Installed water purifying Reduce water equipment (Jinan Sysmex) Reduce water usage at Reused industrial waste water usage at reagent reagent factories by 10% after treatment (Sysmex factories by 3% (per unit of amount of India) *4 (per unit of amount production) *4 of production) Result in fiscal 2013: 22.0 Base year (fiscal 2008): 21.5 Up 3% against base year *1 Sysmex Corporation *2 Business offices: All Factories and major business sites Twelve domestic and overseas Group factories (five in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States and Brazil; two in China; one each in India and Singapore) Eight domestic and overseas Group offices (four in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States, China and Singapore) *3 Business offices: All Factories and major business sites that product and/or chemical substances are handled Twelve domestic and overseas Group factories (five in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States and Brazil; two in China; one each in India and Singapore) Six domestic and overseas Group offices (two in Japan; one each in Germany, the United States, China and Singapore) *4 Reagent factories (nine sites) 65 Reducing the Use of Substances with Environmental Impact Conforming with Regulations * Application of the revised RoHS Directive (which was amended in July 2011) to Sysmex's diagnostic instruments and diagnostic instruments for animals begins from July 2016. To ensure its compliance with this revised RoHS Directive, Sysmex is conducting parts inspections on products shipped to Europe. After completing these inspections in fiscal 2014, we will introduce design changes on parts requiring a response. By moving forward with this initiative, we aim to achieve full compliance in fiscal 2015. * RoHS Directive: A directive prohibiting the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic devices sold in the European Union. This directive calls for the cessation of use of heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent chromium) and specified brominecontaining flame retardants (PBB and PBDE). Developing Smaller, More Energy-Efficient Products To help our customers save energy, we are pursuing efforts to develop diagnostic instruments that are smaller and use even less electricity. To reduce the environmental impact that occurs during product shipping, we are cutting back on the use of packaging materials and pursuing ways of making packaging methods more efficient. Establishing Eco-Friendly Diagnostic Reagent Raw Material Production Sysmex has established a method of producing from silkworms the proteins used as raw materials in its diagnostic reagents. Our protein production contracting service business using this technology has also been fully operational since fiscal 2012, and we are already taking orders from a number of pharmaceutical companies. In the past, proteins were cultivated with equipment such as tanks to control for environmental factors (such as sterility, temperature and oxygen concentrations), using cells from mammals and other animals; the new approach reduces energy consumption substantially. As silkworms can be cultivated at Silkworms to produce proteins room temperature, simply by using shelves and breeding containers and providing them with food, we anticipate energy savings and waste reduction. 66 Eco-Friendly Service Promoting Eco-Friendly Service Models Sysmex is lowering environmental impact by making service more efficient. For example, in addition to expanding the functions of the Customer Support Center, we are * minimizing downtime for diagnostic instruments in use by constructing the SNCS (Sysmex Network Communication Systems) to maintain interactive communication with customers. This system leads to reduced visits to customer sites by our employees, allowing reductions in the amounts of gasoline used by company cars and the amounts of CO emitted by them. 2 Reducing CO Emissions for Logistics 2 We are also promoting efforts to reduce CO2 emissions generated in logistics processes. We are shifting from air to ocean freight when shipping products overseas, but urgent shipments often require products to be transported by air. We have undertaken initiatives to increase shipping container loading efficiency and conduct ocean transport in a more planned manner to reduce the need for rush shipments. In fiscal 2013, CO2 emissions increased approximately 3% year on year when converted to the * unit per ton-kilometers , but when compared on a real numeric basis, emissions were down by approximately 3%, due to such measures as promoting a shift to ocean transport. * Ton-kilometer: A unit of freight carriage equal to the transportation of one metric ton of freight one kilometer. For example, one metric ton of freight transported one kilometer is expressed as “one ton-kilometer.” FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Within Japan 1,256t‐CO 1,145t‐CO 1,237t‐CO 2 2 2 Exports 3,279t‐CO 4,528t‐CO 4,251t‐CO 2 2 2 CO emissions from logistics 2 Notes: Range of calculation is CO from factory in Japan to customers within Japan and that 2 to overseas seaport or airport. 67 Environment Consciousness at Business Offices Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Business Offices We are promoting various measures at each site, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our business offices. At our business offices including factories, we are implementing energy-saving measures to meet each office’s characteristics, such as thoroughly monitoring room temperatures in summer and winter, installation of moving detectors to activate staircase lighting, and introducing energy-efficient fluorescent and LED lighting, etc. We have installed demand monitoring functions to control overall electricity use in some business sites. LED lighting (Ono Factory) As a result of these initiatives, in fiscal 2013 greenhouse gas emissions (unit per consolidated sales) were down approximately 5% from the preceding fiscal year. Greenhouse gas emissions at business offices Notes: Scope of the data: Factories and major business offices 12 factories in Japan and overseas (five in Japan, one each in Germany, the USA, Brazil, India and Singapore, and two in China) Eight major business offices in Japan and overseas (four in Japan, one each in Germany, the USA, China and Singapore) 68 Reducing Waste at Business Offices We are continually striving to reduce waste and increase our recycling rate through such efforts as reviewing waste disposal companies. Sysmex Wuxi, for example, has worked on reducing waste by reusing PE bags used for materials packaging in production and development offices and also for trash bags as housewares . In Japan, we are promoting the use of garbage disposer to generate fertilizer from garbage at employee cafeterias in business offices that generate substantial amounts of garbage. We are continuously conducting various approaches at each sites. In fiscal 2013, at Technopark we installed a garbage disposer that completely eliminates garbage, reducing approx. 20% of burnable waste. Through these approaches, the Group is maintaining a stable recycling rate from year to year. Business office recycling rate Notes: Scope of the data: Factories and major business offices that handle products and chemical substances 12 factories in Japan and overseas (five in Japan, one each in Germany, the USA, Brazil, India and Singapore, and two in China) Six major business offices in Japan and overseas (two in Japan and one each in Germany, the USA, China and Singapore) Reducing Water Use and Adequate Wastewater Processing at Factories We are working to improve efficiency of water use and reduce water use volume. At Sysmex India, for example, factory wastewater is purified and used as watering for the green space in the facility, although individual sites is proceeding with approaches, due to impacts such as increased production volume and extension or reconstruction of factories, in fiscal 2013 water use increased for approx. 3% year on year. Water use at reagent factories Note: Scope of the data: Reagent factories (nine locations) 69 Others Reducing CO Emissions from Company Cars in Japan 2 To reduce CO emissions from some 400 company cars in Japan, we are approaching to visualize 2 the travel distance and the amount of use fuel for each company cars and heighten driver consciousness. We are also promoting to introduce fuel-efficient cars and and hybrid cars, but the CO emissions from company cars increased approximately 5% over the previous year's during 2 fiscal 2013 in Japan because of expansion for scope of the data, etc. Thorough and Careful Management and Proper Processing of Infectious Materials Sysmex International Reagents uses biological substances as raw materials of products, and Technopark uses them as experimental materials for research and development. As these substances have infection potential, as a measure of precaution, they are managed strictly such as limit of location to storage and use them according to the manual, and furthermore, these substances are carefully segregated from general waste for proper disposal. Reducing Paper Use by IT Sysmex Corporation has introduced tablet computers to promote paperless meetings. This approach reduces paper use and waste volumes, as well as eliminating such processes as printing and distributing documents prior to meetings. Meeting efficiency is also improved, as data can be distributed digitally to meeting participants beforehand. We have also reduced paper use by using digital data rather than paper when presenting drawings of product parts to suppliers. Promoting Green Procurement Sysmex has established Green Procurement Standards and works to enlighten the environmental consciousness of its suppliers. We also disclose on our website the chemical substances that we limit to use or reduce in our products, and we ask our suppliers of parts and raw materials for their cooperation in this regard. 70 Environmental Impact of Business Activities 71 SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) Socially responsible investment (SRI), assessing and screening corporate performance in dimensions like environment and social fairness as well as economy for a sustainable society, is drawing attention. *1 Sysmex Corporation has been selected as a member of the FTSE4Good Index , a leading SRI index, since fiscal 2008. We have also been selected as a member of the Asia Pacific Index of the *2 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes since fiscal 2012. In addition, we have been designated for *3 Ethibel Excellence by Forum Ethibel, a Belgian SRI evaluation organization. *1 FTSE4Good Index: SRI index developed and managed by the U.K. FTSE Group, a joint venture between the Financial Times newspaper and the London Stock Exchange. *2 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes: SRI index developed through collaboration between S&P Dow Jones Indexes of the United States and Robeco SAM, a Swiss research specialist in the area of socially responsible investment. *3 Ethibel Excellence: Select stocks chosen for demonstrated performance above a certain level in terms of CSR issues related to observance of human rights and environmental contributions. 72 Recognition and Commendation by Third Parties 2014 April Received the Fiscal 2014 Commendation for Science and Technology (Development Category) by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for the Development of a Method for Analyzing Formed Elements in Urine March * Selected for the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2014 (Sysmex America) * Companies That Care Honor Roll 2014: A corporate ranking that designates companies that contribute to the welfare of employees, their families and local community, based on a survey conducted by the Center for Companies That Care, an NPO 2013 December Received the German Design Award (sponsored by the German Design Council) for the XN-2000 automated hematology analyzer and XN reagents November Received the Chairman's Prize from the Hyogo Institute of Invention and Innovation for one invention and The Encouragement Prize for Invention for three other inventions at the Kinki Local Commendation for Invention November Selected in the Top Workplaces survey of regional organizations by the Chicago Tribune (Sysmex America) October Selected for excellence in disclosure to individual investors at the Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure, sponsored by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan October Received the Good Design Award, sponsored by the Japan Institute of Design Promotion, for the ASTRIM FIT health monitoring analyzer July Our online network support service, Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS), received a Grand Prix at the IT Japan Award 2013, sponsored by Nikkei Computer (published by Nikkei Business Publications, Inc.) June Received the Hyogo Prefecture Invention Award for Specimen Analyzers and White Blood Cell Classification and Counting Method/White Blood Cell Classification and Counting Kit April Received the Fiscal 2013 Commendation for Science and Technology(Development Category) by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, for development of the method of classifying and counting particles by automated hematology analyzer March Selected to the Companies That Care Honor Roll 2013 (Sysmex America) January Received Germany’s iF Product Design Award for the XN-2000 automated hematology analyzer and XN reagents 73 2012 November Received The Encouragement Prize of the President of Japan Patent Attorneys Association for one invention, and The Encouragement Prize for Invention for three inventions at the Kinki Local Commendation for Invention Awards October Received commendation at the Securities Analysts Association of Japan Corporate Disclosure Study Group Awards October Selected one of the 2012 Best Places to Work in Healthcare in recognition of its high level of employee satisfaction （Sysmex America） * Best Places to Work in Healthcare: Ranking of companies selected and recognized by employees from the healthcare industry as good places to work. Based on research by industry publication Modern Healthcare August Sysmex 2011 Annual Report awarded a bronze medal in the Healthcare Technology category of the 26th Annual International ARC Awards (held by MerComm, Inc., of the United States) August Received Healthcare’s Hottest Award* in recognition of rapid sales growth (Sysmex America) * Healthcare’s Hottest Award: Healthcare companies with continuous growth that have generated a minimum of $20 million in annual revenue in most recent fiscal year are selected based on research by industry publication Modern Healthcare May Received the award for contribution to industrial development of Hyogo in recognition of initiatives to the Kobe Chamber of Commerce and contributions invigorating regional industry Received Hyogo Prefecture Invention Award for “Hematological analyzer sampling probe cleaning composition and method of using”and “Automated hematology slide preparation unit” March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2012 (Sysmex America) March Selected as among Germany’s Best Employers in 2012* in recognition of its high level of employee satisfaction (Sysmex Europe) * An employee satisfaction survey of over 400 companies conducted by a German researcher February Received 2012 Achievement in Customer Excellence Award* for high-quality service (Sysmex America） * A program recognizes outstanding achievement in customer, employee and partner satisfaction by MarketTools, USA. January Selected for inclusion in the 2012 Global 100 (100 most sustainable companies in the world) 74 2011 December Selected one of the 2011 Best Places to Work in Healthcare(Sysmex America) November Received the Good Design Gold Award 2011 for its highly rated in vitro diagnostic system employing the Sysmex’s new Silent Design® August Received Technology Award from the Japan Society of Clinical Chemistry for ‘A Novel CK-MB Activity Assay Kit “L-System CK-MB” Using Anti-human Mitochondrial CK Antibodies' May Received the “Invention Award” in the 2011 National Commendation for Invention, sponsored by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation, for technologies related to its white blood cell classification and counting method and associated reagents March Won the Hyogo Governor's Award in the 3rd Hyogo Manufacturing Technology Awards March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2011 (Sysmex America) February Sysmex Technopark R&D Tower received CASBEE Architectural Award (1st City of Kobe Design Award, CASBEE Category Architectural Award) January Received Nikkei Annual Report Award 2010 (presented by Nikkei Inc.) for the attractive layout, design and overall balance of our annual report 2010 November Received the Director-General of the Patent Office Encouragement Award (1 award) and Invention Encouragement Award (3 awards) in the Kansai Region Commendation for Invention The OSNA method received the “Best Ideas in Healthcare 2010*“ award (hosted by Diario Médico) in Spain * From 2002, Diario Médico, the leading medical newspaper publisher in Spain, has selected the best initiatives, products or projects leading to significant improvements in healthcare. In 2010, out of 506 ideas, Sysmex's OSNA method received the Best Ideas in Healthcare 2010 award in the research and pharmacology field October Received the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the Intellectual Property Achievement Award Received the Kobe Environmental Achievement Award August Sysmex Annual Report 2009 won the Gold Award in the healthcare category of the 2009 Vision Award July Honored with the Invention Award in the National Commendation for Invention April Received the Hyogo Prefectural Invention Award March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2010 (Sysmex America) February Our initiative to “turn food waste into compost” recognized as a “Hyogo Biomass eco Model*” (organized by the Hyogo Prefectural Government) * Recognizing pioneering initiatives in the efficient utilization of biomass in Hyogo Prefecture 75 2009 October Our R&D hub, Technopark, received the Encouragement Award of the Urban Green Space Award* (organized by the Urban Green Space Development Foundation) * Commends companies that have achieved outstanding results in improving the environment by using trees, flowers, and other “greenery,” thus contributing to the creation of lush urban neighborhoods September Our R&D hub, Technopark, received the Promotion Award of the Best of New Offices award* * Commends offices that incorporate originality and ingenuity, are comfortable and functional, stimulate sensitivity, and enhance creativity September Received Honorary Award from the Mongolian Health Minister in recognition of our investigation and support for external quality control April Selected as one of Daiwa Investor Relations’ “580 companies that maintain outstanding Internet IR Site” for our IR site March Our IR site received the Gómez IR Site Ranking Excellent Award March Selected for Companies That Care Honor Roll 2009 (Sysmex America) 2008 December Our R&D hub, Technopark, assessed as the first-ever CASBEE* class S (highest class) facility in Kobe City * Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency: Assesses buildings in terms of the global environment, earthquake performance, barrier-free functions, landscape, etc. November Received one “Commissioner of the Japan Patent Office Invention Incentive Award” and three “Invention Incentive Awards” in the 2008 Kinki Local Commendation for Invention (organized by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation) October Received the “Fiscal 2008 Kobe Men & Women Iki-iki Business Establishment Award” (organized by the Kobe City Government) March Our Sustainability Report 2007 received the Encouragement Award given as a part of the Environmental Communication Awards (organized by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan) 2007 December The Sysmex Annual Report received the Special Award in the Nikkei Annual Report Awards 2007 November Received a “Shibucho-award (Award from the Branch Director)” and two “Invention Incentive Awards” in the 2007 Kinki Local Commendation for Invention (organized by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation) April Our “reagent technology for measuring immature cells in the blood” received the 2007 Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Award (organized by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan) 76 ISO 26000 The chart below includes the seven core subjects of the ISO 26000* and indicates the location of “Sysmex Sustainability Report” that correspond to individual subjects. * ISO, the International Organization for Standardization, released an International Standard providing guidelines for social responsibility named ISO 26000 in November 2010. Core Subjects Location Organizational Governance P25 Management P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO Human Rights P42 Involvement with Employees Labor Practices P42 Involvement with Employees The Environment P61 Environmental Conservation Activities P11 Highlight 2 P13 Highlight 3 Fair Operating Practices P25 Management P51 Involvement with Business Partners Consumer Issues P35 Involvement with Customers P9 Highlight 1 Community Involvement and P56 Corporate Citizenship Activities P13 Highlight 3 Development GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The chart below includes the categories for disclosure required under the GRI* Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Edition 3.1 and indicates the website that correspond to individual categories. * GRI is an acronym for the Global Reporting Initiative. GRI was established in 1997 as an international institution to create and disseminate international guidelines related to corporate sustainability reporting. GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Edition 3.1 Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of P3 Message from the the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent Chairman and CEO senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO Website: Investor Relations Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. P5 Sysmex at a Glance 77 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. P5 Sysmex at a Glance 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including P5 Sysmex at a Glance main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. P5 Sysmex at a Glance 2.5 Number of countries where the organization P5 Sysmex at a Glance operates, and names of countries with either major P3 Message from the operations or that are specifically relevant to the Chairman and CEO sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Website: Investor Relations 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, P5 Sysmex at a Glance sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. P5 Sysmex at a Glance 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Website: Investor Relations regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. P72 External Evaluation Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for P2 Editorial Policy (Period information provided. covered) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). P2 Editorial Policy (Date of publication) 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) P2 Editorial Policy (Editorial policy) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or P2 Editorial Policy its contents. (Inquiries about this report) Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, P2 Editorial Policy subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, (Organizations covered) suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or P71 Environmental boundary of the report. Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Website: Investor Relations leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of P2 Editorial Policy calculations, including assumptions and techniques (Guidelines referenced) underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 78 GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard P77 Guideline Comparative Disclosures in the report. Table ASSURANCE 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including P25 Management committees under the highest governance body (Corporate Governance) responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Website: Corporate governance body is also an executive officer. Governance 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Website: Corporate structure, state the number and gender of members Governance of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to P32 Management (CSR provide recommendations or direction to the highest Management) governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Website: Corporate highest governance body, senior managers, and Governance Report executives (including departure arrangements), and (Japanese only） the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body P25 Management to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. (Corporate Governance) 4.7 Process for determining the composition, P25 Management qualifications, and expertise of the members of the (Corporate Governance) highest governance body and its committees,including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or P7 Corporate Philosophy values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to P26 Management economic, environmental, and social performance (Compliance) and the status of their implementation. P35 Involvement with Customers (Quality Assurance) P51 Involvement with Business Partners (CSR Promotion throughout the Value Chain) P44 Involvement with Employees (Employee Evaluation and Treatment) P56 Corporate Citizenship Activities (Basic Policy) P62 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Management System) 79 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for P32 Management (CSR overseeing the organization's identification and Management) management of economic, environmental, and social P25 Management performance, including relevant risks and (Corporate Governance) opportunities, and adherence or compliance with P31 Management (Risk internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, Management) and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance P25 Management body's own performance, particularly with respect to (Corporate Governance) economic, environmental, and social performance. P62 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Management System) COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary P62 Environmental approach or principle is addressed by the Conservation Activities organization. (Environmental Management System) P32 Management (CSR Management) 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and P32 Management (CSR social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Management) which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the P32 Management (CSR organization. Management) 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders P32 Management (CSR with whom to engage. Management) 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including P32 Management (CSR frequency of engagement by type and by Management) stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 CORE Direct economic value generated and distributed, Website: Investor Relations including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 CORE Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 CORE Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 CORE Significant financial assistance received from government. 80 MARKET PRESENCE EC5 ADD Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 CORE Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on P51 Involvement with locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Business Partners (CSR operation. Promotion throughout the Value Chain) EC7 CORE Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 CORE Development and impact of infrastructure P56 Corporate Citizenship investments and services provided primarily for Activities public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 ADD Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO MATERIALS EN1 CORE Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ENERGY EN3 CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy P71 Environmental source. Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN4 CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. P71 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN5 ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency P71 Environmental improvements. Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN6 ADD Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable P66 Environmental energy based products and services, and reductions Conservation Activities in energy requirements as a result of these (Reducing the Use of initiatives. Substances with Environmental Impact) EN7 ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption P67 Environmental and reductions achieved. Conservation Activities (Eco-Friendly Service) WATER EN8 CORE Total water withdrawal by source. P71 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN9 ADD Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of No incident water. EN10 ADD Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 81 BIODIVERSITY EN11 CORE Location and size of land owned, leased, managed P13 Highlight 3 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 CORE Description of significant impacts of activities, P13 Highlight 3 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 ADD Habitats protected or restored. P13 Highlight 3 EN14 ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 ADD Number of IUCN Red List species and national No incident conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions P71 Environmental by weight. Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN17 CORE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by P68 Environmental weight. Conservation Activities (Environment consciousness at business offices) EN18 ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and P68 Environmental reductions achieved. Conservation Activities (Environment consciousness at business offices) EN19 CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. P68 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environment consciousness at business offices) EN20 CORE NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type Non-disclosure because of and weight. small amount of emissions EN21 CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. P71 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN22 CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. P71 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) EN23 CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. P62 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Management System) EN24 ADD Weight of transported, imported, exported, or No incident treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 ADD Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity No incident value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. 82 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 CORE Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of P66 Environmental products and services, and extent of impact Conservation Activities mitigation. (Reducing the Use of Substances with Environmental Impact) P67 Environmental Conservation Activities (Eco-Friendly Service) P70 Environmental Conservation Activities (Others) P71 Environmental Conservation Activities (Environmental Impact of Business Activities) P11 Highlight 2 EN27 CORE Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. COMPLIANCE EN28 CORE Monetary value of significant fines and total number No incident of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. TRANSPORT EN29 ADD Significant environmental impacts of transporting P66 Environmental products and other goods and materials used for the Conservation Activities organization's operations, and transporting members (Reducing the Use of of the workforce. Substances with Environmental Impact) P67 Environmental Conservation Activities (Eco-Friendly Service) P70 Environmental Conservation Activities (Others) OVERALL EN30 ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO EMPLOYMENT LA1 CORE Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender LA2 CORE Total number and rate of new employee hires and P44 Involvement with employee turnover by age group, gender, and Employees (Employee region. Evaluation and Treatment) LA3 CORE Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. LA15 CORE Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 83 LABOR / MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 CORE Percentage of employees covered by collective P48 Involvement with bargaining agreements. Employees (Cooperation between Labor and Management) LA5 CORE Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 ADD Percentage of total workforce represented in formal P48 Involvement with joint management–worker health and safety Employees (Cooperation committees that help monitor and advise on between Labor and occupational health and safety programs. Management) LA7 CORE Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and P48 Involvement with absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities Employees (Health and by region and by gender. Safety Considerations) LA8 CORE Education, training, counseling, prevention, and P48 Involvement with risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Employees (Health and members, their families, or community members Safety Considerations) regarding serious diseases. LA9 ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal P48 Involvement with agreements with trade unions. Employees (Cooperation between Labor and Management) TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 CORE Average hours of training per year per employee by P49 Involvement with gender, and by employee category. Employees (Human Resources Development) LA11 ADD Programs for skills management and lifelong P49 Involvement with learning that support the continued employability of Employees (Human employees and assist them in managing career Resources Development) endings. LA12 ADD Percentage of employees receiving regular P44 Involvement with performance and career development reviews, by Employees (Employee gender. Evaluation and Treatment) DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 CORE Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of P42 Involvement with employees per employee category according to Employees (Respecting gender, age group, minority group membership, and Human Rights and other indicators of diversity. Diversity) EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN LA14 CORE Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Human Rights Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 CORE Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 84 HR2 CORE Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and P51 Involvement with other business partners that have undergone human Business Partners (CSR rights screening, and actions taken. Promotion throughout the Value Chain) HR3 CORE Total hours of employee training on policies and P26 Management procedures concerning aspects of human rights that (Compliance) are relevant to operations, including the percentage P42 Involvement with of employees trained. Employees (Respecting Human Rights and Diversity) NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 CORE Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 CORE Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. CHILD LABOR HR6 CORE Operations and significant suppliers identified as P42 Involvement with having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Employees (Respecting measures taken to contribute to the effective Human Rights and abolition of child labor. Diversity) P51 Involvement with Business Partners (CSR Promotion throughout the Value Chain) FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 CORE Operations and significant suppliers identified as P42 Involvement with having significant risk for incidents of forced or Employees (Respecting compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Human Rights and elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Diversity) labor. P51 Involvement with Business Partners (CSR Promotion throughout the Value Chain) SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 ADD Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 ADD Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ASSESSMENT HR10 CORE Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. REMEDIATION HR11 CORE Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Society Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO 85 LOCAL COMMUNITY SO1 CORE Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 CORE Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 CORE Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. CORRUPTION SO2 CORE Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 CORE Percentage of employees trained in organization's P42 Involvement with anti-corruption policies and procedures. Employees (Respecting Human Rights and Diversity) P53 Involvement with Business Partners (Ensuring Thorough Compliance in Transactions) SO4 CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. PUBLIC POLICY SO5 CORE Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 ADD Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 ADD Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. COMPLIANCE SO8 CORE Monetary value of significant fines and total number No incident of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Management Approach P3 Message from the Chairman and CEO CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 CORE Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts P35 Involvement with of products and services are assessed for Customers (Quality improvement, and percentage of significant products Assurance) and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 ADD Total number of incidents of non-compliance with P37 Involvement with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health Customers (Safety and and safety impacts of products and services during Quality Information) their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 CORE Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 86 PR4 ADD Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Website: Important Product regulations and voluntary codes concerning product Notice (only Japanese) and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 ADD Practices related to customer satisfaction, including P38 Involvement with results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Customers (After-Sales Support) P39 Involvement with Customers (Enhancing Customer Satisfaction) MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 CORE Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and P26 Management voluntary codes related to marketing (Compliance) communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 ADD Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 ADD Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. COMPLIANCE PR9 CORE Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance No incident with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 87 Independent Opinion On Reading the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2014 Katsuhiko Kokubu Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University Social contribution through resolving social issues Highlight 1 describes the addition of two German companies to the Group in ﬁscal 2013, providing detail on the objectives for this move, as well as some of the issues. The article clearly indicates that the purpose of this business strategy is to contribute to the resolution of social issues through personalized medicine and other areas of healthcare, and to treating infectious diseases in emerging markets and developing countries. Sysmex is cultivating a business strategy that aims to resolve social issues through its main businesses, and these moves show how Sysmex is contributing to society. Expanding Group business is typically the sort of topic discussed in IR materials. I give Sysmex high marks for the fact that it is described here from a CSR perspective, as this approach exempliﬁes the interweaving of Sysmex’s CSR strategy into its business. Steady Progress on Environmental Conservation Activities During ﬁscal 2013, Sysmex placed a strong emphasis on improving its logistics processes (Highlight 2). Transportation, packaging and other activities present opportunities to achieve transformation through changes both large and small. I applaud Sysmex highly for its steady progress on environmental conservation activities. The Group is also addressing biodiversity, commencing forest maintenance activities at the “Sysmex Forest” in ﬁscal 2013 (Highlight 3). By preserving the forests upstream of its own factory, Sysmex is protecting the water for the factory as well as showing an awareness of its responsibility for protecting the ecosystem downstream. For these reasons, I consider this project highly meaningful. Going forward, I would like to see activities such as these incorporated into the CSR objectives and their promotion continued. Mid-Term Objectives and KPI for CSR Activities For its CSR activities, Sysmex has provided a table showing the status of its activities in ﬁscal 2013 against the targets it has set, as well as issues to address in ﬁscal 2014, laid out according to the seven ISO 26000 core subjects. I ﬁnd this self-reporting extremely easy to follow. In the future, wherever possible I would like to see numerical targets indicated more speciﬁcally, with their additional development on activities that include overseas oﬃces. In its pursuit of the “Sysmex Way,” the Group could set key performance indicators (KPIs) for use both in Japan and overseas. Simply viewing the resulting numerical information would make it easy to see Sysmex’s global CSR activities and earn recognition on a global level. The bar on CSR activities is set at a high level in Sysmex’s industry; I look forward to future developments. 88 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan Tel +81-78-265-0500 Fax +81-78-265-0524
