Communication on Progress 2013 History • 1969 Datascrip started out as a humble stationery store with an expanding product line from stationery to office equipment, office machines, drafting machines, office furniture, computers and printers. • 1979 The company’s core business was Office System. • 1985 The company’s core business developed into System for Business. • 1997 Datascrip became known as Office Solution Company. • 2000 Repositioned itself as the Business Solutions Provider. Datascrip’s foray into information technology is strengthened by its existing product portfolio and 43 years of management experience. 1 The One Stop Business Solutions 2 Statement of Support We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Succeed above Success. Irwan Kamdani President Director PT. Datascrip 3 Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Rumah Gemilang Indonesia is a training center of Al-Azhar Peduli Ummat (a nonprofit organization) which empowers underprivileged young generations by teaching them practical skills in photography and videography, graphic design, computer engineering, office applications, sewing and fashion. Datascrip supported Rumah Gemilang Indonesia by providing them several Canon EOS 1100DC cameras to be used for their training program. • Datascrip sponsored gathering of US-graduate alumni to discuss, among others, how to make public health become more affordable, with Minister of Health as one of the key speakers. • On March 28, July 19 and October 18, 2013, Datascrip held its blood donation events with the help of Indonesian Red Cross. This marked an increase from just two events in the previous year. 4 Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip continued to instill our corporate culture (through games, sharing sessions, gimmicks, etc.) to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: – Succeed above success – CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Efficient) – SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) – CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation, Coordination, Commitment) • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid alAdha on October 11, 2013. • Datascrip , through its Canon School Attack program, visited five elementary schools in Jakarta to introduce them basic photography, photo hunting competition and paper craft. More than 500 students were very excited to learn skills that would boost their creativity and independent thinking. Datascrip will expand this program in year 2014 to other elementary schools in Jakarta and surrounding cities. 5 Labor • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • As part of our annual activity, this year we gathered independent photographers in various tourist attractions in Bandung and Bali to teach them good photography skills in order to help them increase their earnings. • Datascrip has started the process to become OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certified, in order to ensure that healthy working environment and the necessary equipments are in place for the health and safety of its employees. 6 Labor • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip provides its employees in-house medical benefits and Jamsostek pension benefits. • Achievements made by Datascrip’s employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip’s Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. • Datascrip supported Aksi Sinergi Untuk Indonesia (AKSI UI), a non-profit organization aimed to create synergy among different entities to create a comprehensive solution to the poverty issue in Indonesia. 7 Environment • Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Canon Care Center (CCC) continues its recycling initiatives through Customer Loyalty Program and Canon Recycle Program, where used and worn-out cartridges, toners, gital cameras, printers and scanners are collected from customers and sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system was incorporated into Datascrip’s new warehouse in Pulogadung, Jakarta. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. • As part of our growing concerns for the environment, Datascrip has started the process to analyze and adjust its operations to become certified for ISO 14001 (environmental management). 8 Environment • Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continually develops IT solutions and software to streamline business process and progress closer toward a paperless office. • Datascrip continues its commitment to bring more environmentally-friendly products into the market. The year 2013 was no exception: – Canon Ink Efficient Printers with full-photolithography inkjet nozzle engineering creates high quality prints with less ink usage. – Pronto Insert ring binder is made from recycled materials. – Optoma EX-631 projector has auto on/off feature with only 10 seconds needed to fully turn on/off the projector, resulting in more efficient use of electricity. • Datascrip has participated in the IGCN’s initiative, “Save Water Campaign” starting middle of 2013. The stickers are installed throughout Datascrip’s offices and warehouses. 9 Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Datascrip encourages government and private sectors to use Priority Customer Online Order (eProcurement System ). The automated and transparent procurement process as well as the clearly listed price are designed to avoid potential for corruption. • The price list of Datascrip products are available through its website, www.datascrip.com. This further reduce the potential for corruption through price mark-up. • Datascrip’s Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption. 10
