Sustainability Report Vnesheconombank Group 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Table of Contents Chairman’s Statement 4 About the Report 8 1. VEB Group Today 10 1.1. General Information 10 1.2. Governance System 15 1.3. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy 20 1.4. Development of the CSR System 22 2. Investment in Sustainability 27 2.1. Management of Social and Environmental Impacts of Investment Activities 27 2.2. Integrated Territorial Development 33 2.3. Innovative Development Projects 41 2.4. Nature Conservation and Energy Projects 47 2.5. Export Support Projects 51 2.6. Promoting PPP Mechanisms 59 2.7. Developing Professional Environment in the Area of Investing Activities 65 2.8. Support for Smalland Medium-Sized Enterprises 70 2.9. Attracting Foreign Investment, Human Resources and Technologies into Russian Economy 80 2.10. Pension Savings Investment 85 2.11. Charity 90 2 3. Responsible Business Practices 94 3.1. Anti-Corruption Procedures 94 3.2. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Cooperation with Stakeholders 99 3.3. Client-Centered Practices 102 4. Corporate Life 107 4.1. HR Policies 107 4.2. Environmental Initiatives 124 Appendices 135 Table of Report Compliance with GRI Guidelines and Financial Service Sector Supplement 135 Statement of Progress in Complying with the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact 145 Findings of Non-Financial Audit of 2012 VEB Group Sustainability Report 146 Contact Information 148 3 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We are firmly convinced that sustainable development is exactly the right way to be followed by a modern Обращение Председателя Внешэкономбанка В.А. Дмитриева society. Admittedly, it acquires a new urgency against the background of the mounting global challenges CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Honorable Colleagues and Partners! We present for your attention and consideration the VEB Group’s Sustainability Report. Actually, this is our 4th non-financial report. It highlights a wide range of issues related to Vnesh­econom­bank’s and the VEB Group members’ contribution to building of an economically sustainable and socially and ecologically safe society. We are firmly convinced that sustainable development is exactly the right way to be followed by a modern society. Admittedly, it acquires a new urgency against the background of the mounting global challenges. Apparently, at the moment, no other reasonable alternative could be offered. The idea of sustainability has been gaining prominence and attention both at the national and international levels. The formats of representative international forums only bear it out. Among them is the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development that was held in 2012. Guided by the international agenda, Vnesh­econom­bank and the Group entities have been consistently embedding sustainability principles into the business practices. This could be best done through developing and putting into place an effective system of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our endeavors are primarily intended to improve the efficiency of support extended for the implementation of major investment projects of national importance. We are immensely dedicated to promoting the PPP mechanisms and securing financial and guarantee support for the national exports. Also, our BACK TO CONTENTS 4 goal is to significantly contribute to bolstering the development of SMEs in the country. These are the strategic goals facing the VEB Group. In 2012 we summarized the results of the first five years of the Bank’s operation as a bank for development. In my judgment, over this period, which is a relatively short one, much has been accomplished. We managed to substantially increase the Bank’s loan portfolio. In 2012 it totaled RUB 720 billion. That brought us closer to achieving the target indicator set forth in the Bank’s Development Strategy to increase the Bank’s loan portfolio by 2015 to RUB 850 billion. We were actively engaged in implementing dozens of investment projects that served as a strong leverage for developing major industries of the economy and the regions. Actually, we engage in projects designed for improving transport, housing and public utilities infrastructure. The Bank is funding projects in the area of public health, medicine and telecommunications. Apart from that, Vnesh­econom­ bank’s loan portfolio has been witnessing continuous growth in the number of projects intended for protecting the environment, encouraging innovations and enhancing the energy effectiveness and efficiency of the natural resource utilization. Thus, in 2012 the share of innovative projects in Vnesh­ econom­bank’s loan portfolio reached 33.7%, with the share of “green” projects amounting to 38.5%. We view the establishment of the VEB Group as a no less important outcome of our dedicated 5-year work. The Group incorporated major banks of Russia, the Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus, as well as 5 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT specialized financial organizations, the activities of which aim to address the key challenges of the Russian economy. VEB’s subsidiaries’ contribution to the Bank’s overall effort is hard to underestimate. That includes developing such strategically important regions as the North Caucasus and the Far East, establishing a system of support for the Russian industrial exports, attracting foreign investment in the country’s economy, implementing the state program of SME support, and developing the leasing services market, etc. Given the immense scale and scope of the VEB Group’s activities we bear special responsibility for the work outcomes. In this context, Vnesh­econom­bank views formulating uniform Group-wide standards of management as a priority task. That primarily concerns evaluation and monitoring of the economic, environmental and social impacts of implementing major investment projects, in which both Vnesh­ econom­bank and the Group members engage. In 2012 it was Vnesh­econom­bank that started to consistently embed the principles of responsible financing in the lending and investment activities. The best practices accepted by the leading foreign financial institutions, as well as major financial initiatives served as benchmarks for us. First and foremost, it is the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). Vnesh­econom­bank joined it in 2013. That was a clear demonstration of our commitment and dedication to the principles of sustainability and our preparedness to demonstrate due regard for environmental and social project impacts when taking investment decisions and directly engaging in project delivery. One of the key lines of Vnesh­econom­bank’s CSR Strategy for 2012–2015 is introducing the practice of responsible financing. The document serves as a major benchmark for enhancement of performance efficiency in the field of sustainable development. In order to fulfill the CSR Strategy we have set ourselves formidable tasks of upgrading internal business processes and promoting sustainability principles. Moreover, we undertook to accomplish these tasks not only within the VEB Group entities, but we also meant to embrace the entire business community in Russia. Traditionally, Vnesh­econom­bank has adopted an active position with regard to interaction and experience exchange between Russian and foreign companies. Sustainability development comes high on the thematic agenda. These activities are carried out by Vnesh­econom­bank, among other things, within the framework of the Bank’s engagement with the UN Global Compact (UNGC) network, an international platform that brings together institutions taking a clear lead in the field of the CSR in their countries. Recognizing the importance of business sustainability Vnesh­econom­bank undertakes the task of establishing the UNGC Network Russia. In 2013, A. Ivanov, Deputy Chairman-Member of the Management Board of Vnesh­econom­bank, was elected as Chairman of the of UN Global Compact Network Russia. Vnesh­econom­bank’s priorities also include nurturing the investment culture and enhancing investment activities. Educational project “Training Specialists — Participants in Investment Projects Implemented with the Support of Development Institutions” is one of the Bank’s key initiatives in this respect. Within the framework of the project, hundreds of participants representing the business comBACK TO CONTENTS 6 Chairman’s Statement munity, public authorities and young specialists have undergone the training courses. We are actively engaged in specialist training and education to provide knowledge required to build staff capability and capacity to engage in PPP projects. We have also made a concerted effort to enhance the qualifications of the young specialists in investment management. In 2012 a Youth Club of Vnesh­econom­ bank was established, which brings together creative young talents from Moscow universities and the Bank’s professionals to discuss the most pressing socio-economic challenges of the country and come up with new ideas for regional development. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank established the annual “Development Award”, which is now recognized as “Investment Oscar”. It is conferred on nominees for outstanding achievements in the implementation of investment programs and projects that are of immense importance for the sustainable socio-economic development of Russia. Quality projects nominated for the award in 2013 expressly demonstrate Russia’s ever-growing investment potential. Vnesh­econom­bank will continue to pursue committed and targeted policies to modernize the Russian economy and promote sustainability principles. It should be mentioned that public authorities, Russian and foreign financial organizations, real sector enterprises and the expert community will be our credible and reliable partners in these endeavors. Hopefully, our joint efforts will deliver good value both for the people in Russia and in other countries. Vladimir Dmitriev Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank 7 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About the Report About the Report This Report presents the outcomes of the 2012 sustainability activities of the Vnesh­econom­bank Group (“the VEB Group”). The Report is the 4th non-financial report prepared by Vnesh­econom­bank and the 2nd report consolidating the VEB Group information. The 1st non-financial report containing information on all members of the Group was published in the previous reporting period1. For the purpose of this Report, the VEB Group includes Vnesh­econom­bank and its subsidiaries and affiliates operating to implement particular provisions of Federal Law No. 83-FZ dated 17 May 2007 “On Bank for Development”2. This Report was prepared in compliance with the Regulations for the Social (Non-Financial) Reporting of State Corporation “Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs (Vnesh­econom­bank)”, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Guidelines, version 3.0) and Financial Service Sector Supplement. Vnesh­econom­ bank self-declares a B+ GRI application level. The Report also describes Vnesh­econom­bank’s approaches to achieving the UN Global Compact principles applied to human rights protection, labour relations, environmental safety and anti-corruption law enforcement. The principal topics of the Report unveil the performance by Vnesh­econom­bank of its functions of a national development bank and the contribution by the Group members to the attainment of Vnesh­econom­bank’s strategic objectives of supporting sustainable innovative social and economic development of the Russian Federation. The report also presents the results of the 1st year of implementing Vnesh­econom­bank’s CSR Strategy for 20122015. To determine the contents of this Report, Vnesh­econom­bank followed the GRI Guidelines and the best non-financial reporting practices of Russian and foreign financial institutions. Additionally, Vnesh­econom­bank took into account the non-financial reporting recommendations issued by the RSPP Union following an independent assurance of the previous 2011 VEB Group Sustainability Report. This Report presents a more detailed description of: • the governance system development in the VEB Group; • the principles of investment projects selection applied by Vnesh­econom­bank; • Vnesh­econom­bank’s approaches to cooperation with stakeholders; • the results of Vnesh­econom­bank’s cooperation with international financial institutions. 1 Vnesh­econom­bank publishes non-financial reports on an annual basis. The previous 2011 Vnesh­econom­bank Group Sustainability Report was adopted by the Management Board of Vnesh­econom­bank on 15 November 2012 and approved by the Supervisory Board of Vnesh­econom­bank on 17 December 2012. 2 This definition of “Vnesh­econom­bank Group” differs from the definition of “banking group” or “financial industrial group” used in the applicable Russian law. BACK TO CONTENTS 8 About the Report The process of information collection, presentation and confirmation by the VEB Group members was based on recommendations for the Group participants developed by Vnesh­econom­bank during the period under review. Furthermore, to ensure uniform approaches of the VEB Group members to specification and recording of non-financial indicators provided for the Report, Vnesh­econom­bank arranged a training seminar for the Group members’ representatives. This report was also independently corroborated by ZAO PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, audited by the Internal Control Service of Vnesh­econom­bank and assured by the RSPP Union for Non-Financial Reporting. 9 BACK TO CONTENTS 1. V  EB Group Today 1.1. General Information The mission of Vnesh­econom­bank is to contribute to implementing the state social and economic policies, boost the competitive edge of the Russian economy and secure its innovation-based modernization. In its activities, Vnesh­econom­bank is guided by the national interests and principles approved by the Government of the Russian Federation 1.1.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Profile State Corporation “Bank for Development and Foreign Federation on 27 July 2007 (hereinafter referred to as Economic Affairs (Vnesh­econom­bank)” was created in the “Memorandum on Financial Policies”). 2007 through reorganization of Vnesh­econom­bank of the USSR, one of Russia’s oldest financial institutions. Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities are designed to ensure The special status of the first national development a sustainable innovative social and economic develbank in Russia specifies the scale of tasks delegated opment of the Russian Federation based on modernito Vnesh­econom­bank in the course of implementing zation and enhanced competitiveness of the Russian the state economic policies. economy. Vnesh­ econom­ bank is engaged in investment, foreign economic, insurance, advisory and other Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities are governed by Federactivities provided for by the Federal Law “On Bank for al Law No. 83-FZ dated 17 May 2007 “On Bank for Development” to implement in Russia and abroad proDevelopment”. Principal business lines and key perjects, including those with foreign participation, aimed formance indicators of Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s investat the development of infrastructure, innovations, spement and financial operations are specified in the cial economic zones (SEZ), environmental protection, Memorandum on Financial Policies of State Corposupport for exports of Russian goods, works and serration “Bank for Development and Foreign Economic vices as well as support for small and medium-sized Affairs (Vnesh­ econom­ bank)” approved by Directive enterprises (SMEs). No. 1007-r issued by the Government of the Russian BACK TO CONTENTS 10 VEB GROUP TODAY Acting as a state financial development institution, Vnesh­econom­bank is seeking to promote sustainable growth of the Russian economy, environmental improvement and social welfare. Vnesh­econom­bank’s investment projects are designed to boost a number of industries and regions contributing to Russia’s transition to an innovative socially-oriented type of economic development Underlying Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities are the folApart from performing the functions of a bank for delowing principles: velopment, Vnesh­econom­bank also acts as an agent for the Government of the Russian Federation and a • absence of competition with commercial financial state trust management company (STMC) to manage institutions; pension savings of the Russian citizens. Furthermore, in 2008 Vnesh­econom­bank was entrusted with the • openness; implementation of the Russian Government’s anti-recessionary measures to maintain the stability of the • viability; Russian financial system and the leading enterprises of the real economy. • preference to public-private partnership (PPP) projects; Vnesh­econom­bank uses its profit exclusively to attain the objectives set by the Supervisory Board. The Bank • environmental responsibility. is actively engaged in forming a long-term resource base required for securing enhanced support for the national economy by raising foreign loans and issuing debt securities. The Bank’s impeccable financial reputation both in Russia and abroad is one of the key factors determining successful implementation of the tasks set. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank ranked 8th on the list of the most reliable banks in the Central and Eastern Europe published by Global Finance As at 01.01.2013, Vnesh­econom­bank’s organizational including the representative office in Nizhny Novgostructure included 33 standalone structural divisions rod opened in 2012. and 17 representative offices in Russia and abroad, 11 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Principal Lines of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Operations • Funding investment projects along the main lines and industry priorities of investment activities including projects designed to eliminate the infrastructure constraints to economic growth, support innovations, enhance the efficient use of natural resources and energy efficiency, etc. Fulfillment of the development bank • Supporting exports of industrial products functions • Contributing to the development of the market of public private partnership projects • Supporting the development of SMEs • Integrated territorial development and single-industry towns modernization • Servicing foreign debt and state external financial assets of the Russian Federation Acting as an agent of the Russian • Collecting legal entities’, Russian entities’ and municipalities’ debts to the Russian Government and the state Federation management company • Issuing and executing sovereign guarantees of the Russian Federation • Trust management of pension savings • Refinancing foreign debt obligations of Russian companies assumed before September 25, 2008 Implementation of the Russian Government’s anti-crisis policy • Extending subordinated loans to Russian lending institutions • Supporting stock market Non-financial reports of the VEB Group contain information on performing by Vnesh­econom­bank the functions of a development bank and a state trust management company. Information on other business lines is presented in Vnesh­econom­bank’s annual reports. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Representative Offices Foreign representative offices of Vnesh­econom­bank Vnesh­econom­bank representative offices in Russia • United Kingdom, London • St. Petersburg • India, New Delhi • Khabarovsk • India, Mumbai • Yekaterinburg • Italy, Milan • Pyatigorsk • China, Beijing • Krasnoyarsk • USA, New York • Rostov-on-Don • Germany, Frankfurt-am-Main • Nizhni Novgorod • France, Paris • Switzerland, Zurich • South Africa, Johannesburg BACK TO CONTENTS 12 VEB GROUP TODAY 1.1.2. The VEB Group The VEB Group includes entities engaged in investeconomy, promote its diversification and encourage ment activities as well as Russian and foreign lending investments. The VEB Group trade mark was regisinstitutions. The VEB Group organizations are seeking tered with the Russian Public Register of Trade Marks to ensure enhanced competitiveness of the Russian and Service Marks in 2011. As at 01.01.2013, the VEB Group comprised 15 organizations, including 6 major commercial banks in Russia, Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus and 9 specialized organizations Employment of all the tools possessed by the Group opment through LLC Management Company of the members enables Vnesh­ econom­bank to more effiRussian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and OJSC ciently apply an integrated approach to fostering RusFederal Centre for Project Finance (FCPF); sia’s economic development. Acting in common interests, each member of the Group handles particular • encouraging innovative development of the Russian issues including: economy by the Fund to Operate the Programme of Financial Support to the Skolkovo Foundation’s In• development of strategically important Russian revestment Projects (VEB-Innovations Fund); gions by OJSC North Caucasus Development Corporation (NCDC) and OJSC The Far East and Baikal • management and handling of bad and non-core asRegion Development Fund; sets of the VEB Group and implementation of the 2010-2013 program of Vnesh­econom­bank’s invest• expert evaluation and monitoring by LLC VEB Enment in affordable housing construction and resigineering of major projects implemented by Vnesh­ dential mortgages implemented by LLC VEB Capital; econom­bank and the Group members; • strengthening economic relations among Russia, • implementation by OJSC SME Bank of the state proUkraine and the Republic of Belarus within the gram of supporting SMEs; framework of activities carried out by OJSC Bank BelVEB (BelVEB) and PJSC Prominvestbank. • development of the leasing market including the SME segment as part of VEB-Leasing operations; The VEB Group also includes 2 Russian universal commercial banks: CJSC GLOBEXBANK and OJSC Svy• support for Russian industrial exports provided by az-Bank. The acquisition of majority interests in the CJSC Roseximbank and OJSC Export Insurance authorized capital of the banks was motivated by the Agency of Russia (EXIAR); need to secure rehabilitation during the 2008–2010 financial crisis. The principal management objective • attracting major investments, including foreign of Vnesh­econom­bank is to increase the banks’ market ones, for the purpose of Russia’s economy develvalue with a subsequent withdrawal from the capital. 13 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VEB Group Subsidairies BelVEB Bank OJSC (Republic of Belarus). Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 97.52%. See information on: BelVEB role 2007 in the Russian-Belorussian economic cooperation development on page 58, BelVEB environmental projects on page 49, SME support on page 78 of this Report GLOBEXBANK CJSC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 99.99%. Information on SME support by GLOBEXBANK see on page 77–78 of this Report SME Bank OJSC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on the implementation by SME Bank of the state SME support program see on pages 72–75 of this Report 2008 ROSEXIMBANK CJSC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on the implementation by ROSEXIMBANK of the state policy of supporting Russian industrial exports and foreign economic activities see on pages 53–55 of this Report Prominvestbank (Ukraine). Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 97.85%. Information on Prominvestbank environmental projects see on pages 49–50 of this Report Joint Stock Commercial Svyaz-Bank. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 99.47%. Information on SME support by 2009 Svyaz-Bank see on page 77 of this Report Specialized subsidiaries VEB-Leasing OJSC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 84.63%. Information on SME services provided by VEB-Leasing see 2008 on page 78 of this Report VEB Engineering LLC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 67.55%. Information on VEB Engineering engagement in Vnesh­econom­bank Group investment projects management see on pages 30 and 50 of this Report VEB Capital LLC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on VEB Capital acting as Vnesh­econom­bank’s agent for the implementation of the 2010–2013 program of Vnesh­econom­bank’s investments in affordable housing construction and residential mortgages see on pages 89 of this Report 2010 The Federal Centre for Project Finance OJSC (FCPF). Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on the implementation by FCPF of Vnesh­econom­bank’s program of regional and urban development funding see on pages 62–63 of this Report The North Caucasus Development Corporation OJSC. Vnesheconomban’s interest — 100%. Information on NCDC engagement in the region’s development see on pages 38–39 of this Report The Management Company of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) LLC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on the encouragement by RDIF of FDI in the Russian economy see on pages 83–84 of this Report Export Insurance Agency of Russia OJSC (EXIAR). Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on EXIAR’s role in the implementation of the state export support system in the Russian Federation see on pages 56–58 of this Report. 2011 The Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund OJSC. Vnesh­econom­bank’s interest — 100%. Information on the Fund’s participation in the region’s development see on pages 40 of this Report The Fund Operator of Program for Financial Assistance to Innovative Projects of Skolkovo Foundation (VEB Innovations Fund). Vnesh­econom­bank is the sole founder of the Fund. Information on the support by the Fund of the Russian economy innovative development see on pages 44–45 of this Report BACK TO CONTENTS 14 VEB GROUP TODAY 1.2. Governance System The governance system of Vnesh­econom­bank reflects best international practices of the leading foreign development banks. At present, the VEB Group continuously seeks to enhance integration and introduce uniform governance standards 1.2.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Governance System Pursuant to the Federal Law “On Bank for DevelopThe Management Board is a collegiate governing ment”, Vnesh­econom­bank is governed by the Supervibody of Vnesh­econom­bank consisting of the Chairsory Board, the Management Board and the Chairman. man of Vnesh­econom­bank and 8 members appointed by the Supervisory Board as advised by the Chairman The Supervisory Board is the supreme governing of Vnesh­econom­bank. The Management Board is subody of Vnesh­econom­bank consisting of 8 members pervised by the Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank. appointed by the Government of the Russian Federation for a term of 5 years and the Chairman of Vnesh­ Day-to-day management of Vnesh­econom­bank is execonom­bank. The Supervisory Board is chaired by the ercised by the Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank, the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federsole executive body of Vnesh­econom­bank. The Chairation. No members of the Supervisory Board except man of Vnesh­econom­bank is appointed by the Presithe Chairman are permanently employed by Vnesh­ dent of the Russian Federation on the nomination of econom­bank. the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation. In 2012 25 meetings of the Supervisory Board and 211 meetings of the Management Board were held. Presidential Decree No. 870 dated 18 June 2012 re-appointed Vladimir Dmitriev to the position of the Chairman of Vnesh­econom­ bank. In 2012 the composition of the Supervisory Board of Vnesh­econom­bank was modified by directives of the Russian Government. Certain changes were also introduced to the composition of the Management Board 15 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vnesh­econom­bank’s Governing Bodies as of January 1, 2013 Supervisory Board of Vnesh­econom­bank Chairman of the Supervisory Board — the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation D.A. Medvedev Minister of Economic Deputy Chairman Chairman Deputy Chairman of the GovernDevelopment of the Russian of the Government of the Russian of Vnesh­econom­bank ment of the Russian Federation Federation A.R. Belousov Federation A.V. Dvorkovich V.A. Dmitriev D.N. Kozak Deputy Chairman of the Deputy Chairman Government of the Russian First Deputy Chairman Minister of Finance of the Government of the Federation Plenipotentiary envoy of the Government of the Russian Federation Russian Federation of the President of the Russian of the Russian Federation A.G. Siluanov D.O. Rogozin Federation in the North Caucasus I.I. Shuvalov Federal District A.G. Khloponin Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank V.A. Dmitriev Management Board of Vnesh­econom­bank First Deputy Chairman First Deputy Chairman Deputy Chairman of Deputy Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank, Member of Vnesh­econom­bank, Member Vnesh­econom­bank, Member of Vnesh­econom­bank, Member of of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board the Management Board M.I. Poluboyarinov A.V. Tikhonov S.A. Vasilyev A.S. Ivanov Deputy Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank, Deputy Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank, Chief Accountant of Vnesh­econom­bank, Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board M.Yu. Kopeikin S.P. Lykov V.D. Shaprinski To prepare recommendations for the resolutions subbody of Vnesh­econom­bank. Members of the Expert ject to adoption by the Management Board of Vnesh­ Council are approved by the Management Board of econom­bank on the principal business lines, the Bank Vnesh­econom­bank and selected from among scienformed standing collegiate working bodies including tists, researchers and business community representthe Committee for Development of Investment Operaatives. tions, the Credit Committee, the Committee on Asset/ Liability Management, the Budget Committee. In 2012 to improve the corporate governance and control system, Vnesh­econom­bank initiated the deThe Expert Council responsible for an in-depth analvelopment of the Guidelines for Monitoring the Exeysis of Vnesh­econom­bank’s principal business lines cution of Instructions Issued by the Collegiate Bodies and preparing recommendations subject to considerof Vnesh­econom­bank specifying the requirements to ation by the governing bodies acts as a consultative monitoring procedures. BACK TO CONTENTS 16 VEB GROUP TODAY 1.2.2. The VEB Group Governance System Vnesh­econom­bank is actively involved in implementcorporate procedures focusing on assistance to the ing within the VEB Group flexible governance methGroup members subject to the agreed strategic objecods, uniform governance standards and standardized tives. The management system of the VEB Group is based on the principles of independent decision-making by the Group members combined with the supervisory control by Vnesh­econom­bank. Vnesh­econom­bank is represented on the Group members’ governing bodies stating the position of Vnesh­econom­bank on such matters as the development of strategic and current policy plans of the Group members In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank established the CommitFurthermore, in 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank formed the tee for the VEB Group Integration and Development Working Group for Coordination of the Group Memauthorized to prepare Group-wide cooperation recombers’ Information Policy, the Working Group for Coormendations pertaining to: dination of Public Borrowing Procedures for Vnesh­ econom­bank’s Subsidiary Banks and Companies, as • development and implementation of the Group well as the Working Group for Coordination of Liquidmembers’ strategies; ity and Risk Management by Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s subsidiary banks and financial companies. As a result, • investment operations; Guidelines for Vnesh­econom­bank’s Cooperation with Subsidiary Banks and Companies in Long-Term Li• monitoring of day-to-day operations; quidity Management and Coordination of Public Borrowing Procedures were approved. • HR management and increased personnel motivation; In November 2012, law department directors of the Group member-banks adopted a resolution to form • customer relations. in 2013 the Working Group for Harmonization of the Regulatory and Legal Framework of Vnesh­econom­ bank and subsidiaries Incorporated in the Group. 17 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank prepared methodological recommendations for the Strategy of VEB Subsidiary Banks’ Development. During the period under review, with due regard for the resolution of Vnesh­econom­bank and based on the above recommendations, the development strategies were formulated for VEB Capital for 2012-2015, Globexbank for 2012-2015, SME Bank for 2013-2015, and VEBLeasing (relating to leasing services for SMEs) for 2012-2017 In 2012 to improve the efficiency of subsidiary banks’ 6 subsidiary banks exceeded target KPIs by 4% to management, Vnesh­econom­bank designed a comput30%. Fulfillment of the KPIs by Svyaz-Bank showed er-based management information system “Subsid51% and by Prominvestbank — 98%. Individual KPIs iary and Related Banks’ Report Collection, Verificawere also determined for the subsidiary banks’ board tion and Analysis Module”. During the stage by stage members. launch of the module Svyaz-Bank was connected to the system. The future development of the subsidiary bank governance system will focus on the prevention of conflicts Starting from 2011, the subsidiary banks’ efficiency of interest within the Group and the updating of the is assessed according to the calculation method used subsidiary banks’ development strategies. Presently, for corporate key performance indicators (KPIs) seVnesh­econom­bank also prepares proposals to employ lected subject to Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s development the Globexbank’s and Svyaz-Bank’s regional networks strategy and based on the nature of each subsidiary for the promotion of the Group members’ services in bank’s operations. The 2012 results reported by 4 of Russian regions. 1.2.3. The VEB Group Risk Management In 2012 the VEB Group Risk Management Policies nancial sustainability and efficient management of were developed as a major step towards the implethe Group’s capital to ensure successful attainment by mentation of uniform standards and standardized the Group members of their objectives. corporate procedures. The Policies specify uniform principles and requirements to risk management and The Policies took into account requirements and recreporting processes based on advanced approaches ommendations of the CBR, supervisory authorities of including Basel II and Basel III recommendations. The the countries of the Group members domicile, recomPolicies implementation will enhance the Group’s fimendations issued by the Basel Committee on BankBACK TO CONTENTS 18 VEB GROUP TODAY ing Supervision and international standards of risk pointment of Chief Risk Officer and risk officers in all management such as COSO, GRC, ISO 31000, IAS the Group members. Additionally, pursuant to the Pol(insofar as it relates to risk information disclosure and icies a new Vnesh­econom­bank collegiate body will be risk valuation). set up, i.e. the Risk Management Committee responsible for the preliminary consideration of any matters The Policies envisage material modification of the relating to risk management including limit setting Group’s risk management system including the apand approval of concrete transactions. VEB Group Risk Management System Project finance risk Strategic risk Stock market risk Interest rate risk Liquidity risk Exchange risk Operational risk Basic risk types Country risk Credit risk Regional risk Market risk Reputational risk Compliance risk Legal risk 19 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1.3. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy Implementation of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy for 2011-2015 will secure quality changes in Russia’s social and economic development also owing to more intensive engagement of Vnesh­ econom­bank in the funding of innovative economy modernization programs and projects 1.3.1. Basic Lines of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued the implemen• a key agency responsible for the implementation of tation of the 2011-2015 Development Strategy unthe state program of supporting SMEs; der which the Bank’s primary objective is to intensify the Bank’s operations as a development istitution to • a centre for the financial and guarantee support for maintain sustainable innovative social and economic national exports; development of the Russian Federation based on modernization and enhancing the competitive edge of the • a state trust management company to manage pennational economy. sion savings; The Strategy defines the prospects of Vnesh­econom­ • an agent for the Government of the Russian Federabank’s development as: tion to manage the sovereign foreign debt and state external financial assets, to recover debts owed to • a national development bank, a leader in the funding the federal budget and issue and execute state guarand expert evaluation of major investment projects antees; of national importance and programs of Russian industries and regions development; • a public and open organization securing a favourable investment climate and facilitating the develop• a centre for the promotion of PPP mechanisms and ment in Russia of an international financial centre; an investment consultant to the Government of the Russian Federation; • a financially sound institution; BACK TO CONTENTS 20 VEB GROUP TODAY • a strategy-oriented organization demonstrating reas well as embedding in its activities the best investsponsible citizenship. ment project selection and management practices. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy provides The achievement of Key Perfomance Indicators (KPIs) for continuous growth of investment project fundspecified by Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strating and increased share of innovative projects in the egy3 would overall generate by 2015 year end RUB Bank’s loan portfolio, expanded support for exports of 1.9 tn or 2.4% of the GDP worth of Vnesh­econom­ high-technology products and SME support programs bank’s support. 1.3.2. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy Implementation Mechanisms To enhance efficiency of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Devel• factor analysis of corporate KPIs for the purpose of opment Strategy implementation, the Bank is striving remunerating the Bank’s employees; to create a strategic management system, with the concept approved by the Management Board in 2012. • monitoring and control over the projects and activiThe system is based on the balanced score card (BSC) ties envisaged by Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development widely used in the present-day strategic management Strategy and approved for implementation in 2012. practice. Alongside that, in 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank developed In 2012 within the framework of establishing a BSCand put in place a software and hardware system inbased system for the Development Strategy monitended for monitoring the Development Strategy imtoring, Vnesh­econom­bank approved the 2012-2015 plementation based on the BSC and a computer-based Strategic Map and KPIs as well as strategic maps and storage of the Bank’s key financial and non-financial KPIs for 10 individual structural divisions of the Bank. indicators. The system provides Vnesh­ econom­ bank management with the up-to-date information on the In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank monitored and controlled progress in Strategy implementation and is unprecethe Development Strategy implementation based on: dented for Russian development institutions. 3 The KPIs to be achieved by Vnesh­econom­bank by the end of 2015 are presented in the 2011 VEB Group Sustainability Report. The full version of the 2011-2015 Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy is available at http://www.veb.ru/about/strat/. 21 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1.4. Development of the CSR System The corporate social responsibility (CSR) system is seen by Vnesh­ econom­bank as an important prerequisite for performing the functions of a national development institution to secure the social welfare and economic stability. The CSR priorities comprise promoting the sustainability principles in the business environment including Vnesh­econom­bank’s participation in UNGC 1.4.1. The CSR Strategy Implementation The Bank promotes the CSR system based on the CSR • enhanced stakeholders’ confidence in Vnesh­ Development Strategy for the Period of 2012 to 2015. econom­bank’s operations; The Strategy specifies Vnesh­econom­bank’s sustainability position as well as the CSR goals, objectives and • increased labour productivity and labour potential priorities for the next 4 years. of the Bank’s employees. The CSR Strategy implementation contributes to the The CSR Strategy underlies the internal regulations achievement by Vnesh­econom­bank of the strategic developed and introduced by Vnesh­econom­bank to goals, i.e. sustainable social and economic developsecure efficient management of its social and environment of the Russian Federation and the improvement mental activities including development of responsiof the corporate governance system drawing on the ble financing practices started in 2013 and the corpobest practices of the leading foreign development inrate environmental policy drafted in 2012. stitutions. The CSR Strategy provides for the implementation of a The CSR Strategy is implemented for the purpose of: wide range of internationally acknowledged initiatives important for Vnesh­econom­bank as a national develop• improved efficiency of the Bank’s environmental ment institution. These include promoting the sustainaand social efforts and business ethics; bility principles in the business community and shaping up high-quality professional environment for invest• raised CSR awareness of Russian companies and ment activities. To support socially important instituthe VEB Group members; tions and the disadvantaged people, Vnesh­ econom­ bank also engages in charity and volunteering projects. BACK TO CONTENTS 22 VEB GROUP TODAY Milestones of CSR Strategy Implementation in 2012-2015 Principal actions scheduled under the CSR Strategy implementaThe 2012 principal results of the CSR Strategy implementation tion for the period up to 2015 • The Procedure of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Social and Economic • Develop and implement the Responsible Financing Practices in Efficiency Assessment was developed 2013-2014 • The VEB Group employees were trained in responsible financing • Develop and implement in 2013-2014 a procedure of environpractices and non-financial reporting mental and social assessment of investment projects subject to advanced international approaches to responsible financing • The scope of Vnesh­econom­bank non-financial reporting was extended to include sustainability of the Group members • Develop in 2013 the Bank’s stakeholder cooperation policy • Recommendations for information accumulation, presentation • Arrange annual international conferences “Investments in and verification to compile the VEB Group annual sustainability Sustainability” reports for the VEB Group members were prepared • Effective from 2013 to ensure Vnesh­econom­bank’s chairman• International conference “Investment in Sustainability. Cooperaship in the Steering Committee of the UNGC Network Russia tion between Financial Institutions and Real Economy” was held • Accede in 2013 to the UN Environment Program Finance • A number of events were arranged as part of Vnesh­econom­ Initiative bank’s involvement in the UNGC Network Russia • Initiate the arrangement from 2013 of joint volunteer actions • Vnesh­econom­bank’s corporate environmental policy was drafted involving the VEB Group employees Implementation of the CSR Strategy priorities such as and business partners. The CSR Strategy also proresponsible business and labour practices contributes vides for implementation effective from 2014 of an to strengthening Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s cooperation integrated approach to Vnesh­econom­bank’s cooperwith key stakeholders including the Bank employees ation with stakeholders. 1.4.2. Embedding CSR Principles in VEB Group Activities A crucial aspect of developing the Group-wide In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank adopted a decision to exmanagement standards is the promotion of the CSR tend the scope of non-financial reporting to include principles among the Group members. Vnesh­econom­ information on the Group members’ contributions to bank focuses on the implementation of responsible sustainability. The 1st consolidated Sustainability Refinancing practices and non-financial reporting as port was prepared in 2011 giving a strong impetus to the most efficient mechanisms used by financial the introduction by the Group members of a system institutions to manage social and environmental designed to keep records of non-financial perforactivities. mance. 23 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2012 to improve the practices of non-financial reporting, Vnesh­econom­ bank prepared for the VEB Group members recommendations for information collection, presentation and confirmation within the process of compiling VEB Group annual sustainability reports offering the Group members a uniform approach to the disclosure of important sustainability information Vnesh­econom­bank’s CSR promotion priorities include The VEB Group members independently develop and the arrangement of thematic training and traineeship implement the CSR and internal sustainability reguinvolving the representatives of both Vnesh­econom­ lations. In 2012 the most significant changes in the bank and the Group members. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­ CSR management system were demonstrated by Robank arranged: seximbank which prepared a number of regulations intended for the furtherance of the CSR and respon• a seminar on the CSR principles promotion within sible financing and obligating all employees to follow the VEB Group in the context of the 2011 Sustainthe CSR principles. These include the Guidelines for ability Report preparation which highlighted the Further Implementation of the CSR Principles in the preparation of the 1st Sustainability Report consolBank’s Operations and the Guidelines for the Promoidating the VEB Group information; tion of the CSR and Responsible Financing Practices within the VEB Group as well as Roseximbank LLC • a seminar on responsible financing practices atCorporate Governance Code. tended by the representatives of UniCredit, KfW, IFC and ERM Eurasia; The preparation by the Group members of individual non-financial reports has not yet become a prevailing • traineeship with the China Development Bank on repractice. The leader in this field is BelVEB, the first and sponsible financing practices and the role of finanonly Group member which began publishing sustainacial sector in maintaining sustainability. bility reports in 2011. 1.4.3. Implementation of the CSR Principles in Business Community The United Nations conference on sustainable develeconomy policies, availability of food, healthcare and opment “Rio+20: The Future We Want” held in Rio de education, climate change, scarcity of natural resourcJaneiro, Brazil, became an international keynote event es and poverty. in 2012. The conference brought together more than 50 thousand participants from every corner of the The focal point of the conference and the main event globe that assembled to affirm their political commitof the last 10 years arranged by UNGC was the Corment to sustainability, to debate the issues of “green” porate Sustainability Forum “Innovations and CollabBACK TO CONTENTS 24 VEB GROUP TODAY oration for the Future We Want”. The delegation sent In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank was also actively engaged by Vnesh­econom­bank4 was an active participant in in the UNGC national activities. Within the framework discussions devoted to the CSR principles disseminaof the UNGC Network Russia Vnesh­econom­bank ortion among the global companies. The final document ganized special meetings for the purpose of sharing could serve as guidance orienting governments tothe “green” office implementation experience and diswards the sustainability agenda. cussing efficient solutions related to CSR promotion in the Russian financial and banking community. Post-Reporting Period Events In June 2013 Alexander Ivanov, Deputy Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank — Member of the Management Board, was elected Chairman of the Steering Committee of the UNGC Network Russia becoming the UNGC Network official representative both nationally and internationally Being one of the 1st state corporations to publish In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued the tradition non-financial reports, in 2012 Vnesh­ econom­ bank of convening an annual international conference “Injoined the interagency working group under the Rusvestment in Sustainability” aimed at promoting the sian Ministry of Economic Development tasked with CSR practices in Russia and opening up a constructive developing the concept of non-financial reporting in dialogue between the representatives of the Russian the Russian Federation. The concept is designed to and foreign business communities. The conference is increase the Russian entities’ responsibility for the soannually attended by more than 200 managers and cial and environmental impacts of their activities and experts from trading companies, development instiensure information openness and transparency. tutions, civil society organizations, public authorities, academic community and professional associations. The conferences held by Vnesh­econom­bank under the keynote theme of “Investment in Sustainability” invariably arouse a live interest of those concerned with the issue of responsibility borne by businesses, governments and society for the sustainable social, economic and environment-friendly development of Russia and the entire world, and of those who are keen to accumulate and share the relevant experience The 3rd International Conference “Investments in Susence was arranged in cooperation with the Russian tainable Development. Partnership between Financial Ministry of Economic Development, the Russian Union Institutions and Real Sector of Economy” was devoted of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the UN Environto embedding the social and environmental responsiment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the bility principles in investment activities. The conferUNGC Network Russia. 4 Vnesh­econom­bank acceded to the UNGC in 2011. 25 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The conference focused on discussing the interaction project implementation were also given due considerexperience of the Russian financial institutions and ation. The conference adopted a final memorandum real economy in securing sustainability. Approaches containing recommendations for the Russian finanto social and environmental risk management in the cial institutions and real economy that are related to course of investment decision-making and investment the CSR practices development. Development Award for the Contribution to Russia’s Social and Economic Development During the 16th Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum held in 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank announced the institution of the annual national Development Award to boost investment activities and create an attractive and favourable investment climate in Russia. The achievement of social and economic objectives relating to modernization of the Russian economy and the country’s sustainable social and economic development is the strategiс goal of the contest. The award is given for accomplishments in implementing investment programs and projects of national importance. Over 220 investment projects were selected for the following 2013 Development Award nominations: • the infrastructure project of the year; • the industrial project of the year; • the integrated territorial development project of the year; • the SME project of the year. Post-Reporting Period Events The 2013 Development Award winners were approved by the Supervisory Board of Vnesh­econom­bank. The social, economic and environmental impacts of investment projects selected for the contest were the main evaluation criteria. The winners received the Development Award during the 17th Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum in June 2013 from Head of the Russian President’s Administration Sergei Ivanov and Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank Vladimir Dmitriev. BACK TO CONTENTS 26 2. Investment in Sustainability 2.1. Management of Social and Environmental Impacts of Investment Activities Investment activities of Vnesh­econom­bank are distinctly sociallyoriented and contribute to improved living standards and environment protection. The investment projects approved by Vnesh­econom­bank from 2007 to 2012 have already created or are intended to create over 155 thousand new jobs, with their expected budgetary effect being RUB 1.7 tn 2.1.1. Expansion of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Investment Activities A primary function of Vnesh­econom­bank as a nationThe criteria applied by Vnesh­econom­bank to identify al development bank is financing investment projects projects of national importance include compliance contributing to Russia’s sustainable social and ecowith the priorities of economic development of the Rusnomic development. Vnesh­econom­bank participates in sian Federation and Russian constituent entities, PPPmajor projects including those of national importance, based implementation, development of infrastructure the financing of which due to long payback periods, facilities intended for supporting SEZ in the Russian complexity and capital intensity does not make much Federation. commercial sense for commercial financial institutions. As at 01.01.2013, the loan portfolio of the Bank for Development amounted to RUB 720 bn significantly exceeding the target set by Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development Strategy under which the portfolio was supposed to total RUB 531 bn by 2013 year end and RUB 850 bn by 2015 year end 27 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2012 to more efficiently perform its functions of portfolio. The amendments relate to the list of industry a development bank, Vnesh­ econom­ bank amended priorities and primary lines of the Bank’s investment the Memorandum on Financial Policies to expand the and lending activities as well as to quantitative restricscope of the Bank’s operations and diversify its loan tions imposed on investment projects. In 2012 the Bank’s governing bodies approved 54 projects including investment and export support ones. The projects will generate over 40 thousand jobs, with the expected budgetary effect — RUB 739 bn Structure of investment and export support Regional structure of investment projects approved by Vnesh­econom­bank and exports support projects approved in 2012 by primary line of investment by Vnesh­econom­bank in 2012 by Russian as of January 1, 2013 Federal Districts as of January 1, 2013 3.2% 1.8% 1.1% 0.6% 3.7% 9.2% 4.8% 35.6% 9.4% 35.3% 9.5% 16.8% 17.8% 24.2% 27% Enhancing efficient use of natural resources Siberian Federal District Infrastructure development Volga Federal District Exports support Central Federal District Priority national projects and projects implemented Southern Federal District under the Federal Targeted Program Urals Federal District Innovative development Interregional projects Olympic facilities Northwestern Federal District North Caucasian Federal District Far Eastern Federal District BACK TO CONTENTS 28 Investment in Sustainability 2.1.2. Investment Decision-Making Mechanisms Vnesh­econom­bank approves the funding of investapproved by the Supervisory Board of Vnesh­econom­ ment projects5 based on expert evaluation including bank and projects providing for real estate or indusa preliminary and a comprehensive evaluation. Alongtrial development (as regards energy efficiency and side that, some projects are subject to an independent resource saving). expert evaluation. The expertise concerns projects Principles of Selecting Projects Qualifying for Financing by Vnesh­econom­bank Compliance with primary The primary lines and industry priorities of Vnesh­econom­bank’s investment activities lines and industry priorities of are specified in the Memorandum on Financial Policies. The primary lines of investment Vnesh­econom­bank’s investactivities include infrastructure development, enhancing efficient use of natural resources, ment activities innovative development, exports support, etc. Criteria applied to determine a project’s compliance with the principle of a positive impact on A positive economic effect of the country’s economy and society are as follows: Vnesh­econom­bank’s involve• Vnesh­econom­bank involvement in the project implementation does not result in competiment in investment project tion with commercial financial institutions; implementation • the project meets the selected macroeconomic and budgetary criteria Criteria applied to determine project compliance with the principle of high quality are as follows: • low/medium reputational risks for Vnesh­econom­bank; Investment project’s quality • investment attractiveness; • compliance with environmental requirements and standards applicable to the project implementation; • appropriate project preparation 5 A detailed description of the Bank’s investment decision-making mechanism is given in the 2011 VEB Group Sustainability Report. 29 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Post-Reporting Period Events In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank approved the Responsible Financing Policies specifying primary objectives, principles and lines of Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities aimed at securing sustainable social, economic and environment-friendly development of the Russian Federation through embedding responsible financing practices in its lending and investment activities. Furthermore, in July 2013 Vnesh­ econom­bank was the first Russian entity to accede to the UNEP FI, a major global responsible financing initiative Evaluation and Administering Investment Projects with VEB Engineering Participation Vnesh­econom­bank’s key partner in expert evaluation and administering of investment projects is the Bank’s specialized subsidiary VEB Engineering. In 2012 VEB Engineering performed an independent expert evaluation of the Bank’s 12 investment projects including environmental impacts assessment based on the applicable Russian legal requirements. During the year VEB Engineering was also engaged in auditing, monitoring, developing business concepts and proposals for a number of Vnesh­econom­bank’s investment projects. In the long run, VEB Engineering intends to expand the range of provided engineering and consulting services including environmental issues, energy saving and energy efficiency, occupational health and safety. In 2012 to secure quality improvement of engineering and consulting services, VEB Engineering carried out the certification of the quality management system in accordance with GOST R ISO 9001:2008 (National State Standards). BACK TO CONTENTS 30 Investment in Sustainability 2.1.3. Monitoring of Investment Projects’ Efficiency and Assessment of Social and Economic Impacts of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Activities In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank approved the Regulations The Regulations provide for monitoring of the investfor Monitoring and Administering Investment Projects ment projects efficiency including economic, budgetimplemented with Vnesh­econom­bank’s engagement. ary, social and environmental effects. In 2012 acting as a development bank, in order to upgrade investment activities, Vnesh­econom­bank launched the integrated automation of investment project monitoring and administering based on the Investment Project Planning, Analysis and Monitoring System Additionally, in 2012 Vnesh­ econom­bank prepared ports of industrial and agricultural products and serand approved the Guidelines for Evaluating the Social vices, as well as SME support through the SME Bank. and Economic Impacts of Vnesh­econom­bank’s ActivThe Guidelines will lay foundations for an integrated ities. The Guidelines stipulate evaluation of Vnesh­ assessment of Vnesh­econom­bank’s operations and its econom­ bank’s lending and investment operations contribution to Russia’s economic sustainable develrelating to investment project delivery, support for exopment. Awards Received by Vnesh­econom­bank in 2012 for Project Finance Arrangement Two projects co-financed by Vnesh­econom­bank were presented with the Deal of the Year 2012 Award by Trade Finance namely: • a state-of-the-art pig-breeding complex in Voronezh Region designed to produce annually 42 thousand in live weight constructed by APC AGROECO LLC; • a highly productive cattle-breeding complex and a preprocessing slaughterhouse in Bryansk Region constructed by the Bryansk Meat Company. Based on a high innovative level and the social impact, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Infrastructure Journal named the Pulkovo Airport reconstruction project one of the best PPP projects co-financed by Vnesh­econom­bank ranking 2nd (silver award) in the category “Europe, Central Asia, Middle East and North Africa”. 31 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Indicators of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Social and Economic Performance The economic performance indicators describe Vnesh­econom­bank’s contribution to the acceleration of the social and economic development of the Russian Federation, Russian regions and industries: • National/regional economic efficiency • Vnesh­econom­bank’s share in GDP • Vnesh­econom­bank’s share in GRP • Vnesh­econom­bank contribution to the growth of exports of industrial and agricultural products and services • Vnesh­econom­bank contribution to SME development • Vnesh­econom­bank contribution to innovative development The budgetary efficiency indicators describe the ratio of the accumulated budgetary effect to Vnesh­econom­bank’s accumulated investments The social performance indicators describe Vnesh­econom­bank’s contribution to increasing the level of employment, the quality of life, improving the working conditions and other social indicators: • Vnesh­econom­bank contribution to job creation • Vnesh­econom­bank contribution to personal income The environmental impact indicators describe Vnesh­econom­bank’s contribution to enhancing efficient use of natural resources, environmental protection and improving the environmental situation BACK TO CONTENTS 32 Investment in Sustainability 2.2. Integrated Territorial Development In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank’s Memorandum on Financial Policies was amended to add investment projects designed for development of territorial clusters and single-industry municipalities to the Bank’s primary business lines. The amendments also provide for reducing the investment threshold for projects delivered in single-industry towns from RUB 2 bn to RUB 1 bn thus resulting in enhanced opportunities for financing economy modernization projects and creating new regional centres of economic growth 2.2.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Regional Policies Vnesh­econom­ bank’s regional policies are aimed at towns, foster cooperation with local authorities of the fostering sustainable integrated territorial developRussian constituent entities, improve the regional inment. In 2012 Vnesh­ econom­ bank was working to vestment climate, optimize the mechanisms of Vnesh­ form a portfolio of potentially worthwhile investment econom­bank’s subsidiaries’ engagement in regional projects in Russian regions including single-industry territorial development. Vnesh­econom­bank’s representative offices are instrumental in implementing the Bank’s regional policies in the Russian Federation. They are actively engaged in the search for and preliminary selection of regional investment projects qualifying for financing by Vnesh­econom­bank and the Group members In 2012 to capture the needs of the regions in lending • priority investment projects of Russian constituent and financial products and services, Vnesh­econom­ entities meeting the requirements imposed by the bank launched the development of the following daMemorandum on Financial Policies; tabases: 33 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • industrial sites in Russian single-industry towns; pert evaluation in accordance with Vnesh­econom­ bank’s requirements in the context of the Bank’s po• investment projects worth RUB 1-2 bn to be impletential involvement in the projects and a pipeline of mented in single-industry towns. projects eligible for funding by the VEB Group members. On the outcome of the analysis the Bank compiled a list of promising investment projects subject to exImplementation of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Regional Policy in 2012 and Plans for 2013 In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank’s repIn 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank’s representative offices submitted resentative offices are expected to 30 project descriptions; another 153 project bids were submitsubmit to Vnesh­econom­bank at least Arrangement ted to the Group’s subsidiaries for further review 23 investment projects including those of project bids intended for single-industry towns and pipeline As of 2012 year end Vnesh­econom­bank’s representative offices at least 70 project bids from investment reviewed 175 potential investment projects project initiators should be submitted to the Group subsidiaries In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank entered into cooperation agreements with 5 Russian regions: the Pskov, Tula, Tyumen and In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank is Cooperation Kemerovo Regions and Primorski Krai expected to enter into cooperation agreements with agreements with another 5 RF constitRF constituent As of January 1, 2013 56 RF constituent entities executed uent entities and carry out monitoring entities cooperation agreements with Vnesh­econom­bank. Five of of the earlier executed cooperation such agreements provide for the implementation of particular agreements investment projects In 2013 the employees of Vnesh­ In 2012 the employees of the Bank and its representative ofeconom­bank and its representative Representation on fices were represented on 72 advisory bodies on investment offices are expected to be represented advisory bodies activities formed by the federal, RF constituent entities and on 74 advisory bodies formed by the local authorities federal, RF constituent entities and local authorities BACK TO CONTENTS 34 Investment in Sustainability 2.2.2. Integrated Territorial Development Applying the Full Range of VEB Group’s Banking Products and Instruments A new integrated program-based approach to territolending and investment activities, public-private partrial development implemented by Vnesh­econom­bank nership, support for SMEs. since 2011 concerns the whole range of the VEB Group’s banking products and instruments. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank signed the Plan of Joint Actions of the VEB Group and the Administration of KeKaluga Region was selected as a pilot project under merovo Region for the Integrated Territorial Developthe Plan of Joint Actions of the VEB Group and the ment of Kemerovo Region for the Period from 2012 to Government of Kaluga Region for the Integrated Terri2015. The Plan includes scrutinizing of 16 investment torial Development of Kaluga Region signed in 2011. projects with the total value of about RUB 139.7 bn The plan provides for development of cooperation in and a possible commitment of Vnesh­econom­bank and its subsidiaries of about RUB 90.8 bn. In 2013-2014 Vnesh­econom­bank intends to develop joint action plans for the integrated territorial development with 5 Russian constituent entities: Republic of Chechnya, Primorsk Territory, Astrakhan, Nizhny Novgorod and Tyumen Regions Implementation of the Joint Action Plan of the VEB Group and the Administration of Kaluga Region In 2012, to monitor implementation of the Plan for the Kaluga Region Integrated Development, Vnesh­ econom­bank formed a working group comprising the representatives of EXIAR, the Agency for Strategic Initiatives on New Project Promotion, RDIF, Svyaz-Bank, SME Bank, VEB Capital and VEB Engineering. The working group underscored the efficiency of the pilot project implementation and proposed further steps to develop cooperation between the VEB Group and the Government of Kaluga Region. The project also envisages scrutinizing by Vnesh­econom­bank of a project proposal to finance 2 industrial parks and establishing by the Government of Kaluga Region and VEB Capital of the Support Fund for the Region’s enterprises experiencing financial predicaments. 35 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.2.3. Modernization of Single-industry Towns The 2008-2010 financial crisis aggravated the probperiod of 2011-2012. The measures are elaborated by lems of Russian single-industry towns requiring state the Working Group (established in 2009) for Single-inengagement. In this context, at 2009 year end the dustry Towns Modernization under the Government Government of the Russian Federation initiated a state Commission for Economic Development and Integraanti-crisis program aimed at diversification of the sintion chaired by Deputy Chairman of Vnesh­econom­ gle-industry towns’ economy and creating new jobs. bank. Decisions on allocating state support funds for single-industry towns are taken by the Government of In 2011 the Government of the Russian Federation the Russian Federation based on the modernization approved the stimulus package encouraging the ecoproposals submitted by the Working Group. nomic development of single-industry towns for the In 2010-2011 the Government allocated over RUB 24 bn to 49 single-industry towns including RUB 17 bn earmarked for development of infrastructure facilities required for investment projects, thus enabling the launch of 226 investment projects worth over RUB 400 bn. Therefore, every Ruble allocated by the Government to develop the investment infrastructure attracted additional investments of 25 Rubles to the single-industry towns’ economy Monitoring of integrated investment plans (IIP) im• share of those employed by SMEs in the total plemented in 49 single-industry towns supported by able-bodied population increased by 1.6% to 16.6%. the Government revealed that during the period from 31 December 2010 to 1 October 2012: In 2012 the Working Group for Single-industry Towns Modernization under the Government Commission • about 69 thousand permanent jobs and 200 thoufor Economic Development and Integration prepared sand temporary jobs were created; a list of single-industry towns featuring a high risk of the production decrease and the resulting growth of • average unemployment rate reduced from 2.6% to unemployment. The list comprised 68 single-industry 1.6%; towns, with 9 towns eligible for state support. According to preliminary estimates, the amount of the re• share of those employed by core enterprises in quired infrastructure investments totals RUB 5.7 bn the total able-bodied population reduced by 1% to including RUB 4 bn to be allocated out of the federal 15.4%; budget. BACK TO CONTENTS 36 Investment in Sustainability Vnesh­econom­bank is directly involved in funding of the investment projects delivered in single-industry towns and supported by the Government. As of 2012 year end the portfolio of potentially worthwhile investment projects implemented and scheduled for implementation in single-industry towns with participation of Vnesh­econom­bank included 51 investment projects for RUB 607.5 bn, with expected Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment of RUB 370.2 bn Notably, Vnesh­econom­bank reached the targets set in tion as regards the formation by 2012 year end of a the Stimulus Package Encouraging Economic Develportfolio comprising 50 investment projects to be imopment of Single-industry Towns in 2011 and 2012 plemented in single-industry towns. approved by the Government of the Russian FederaVnesh­econom­bank’s Portfolio of Potentially Worthwhile Investment Projects for Single-industry Towns Vnesh­econom­bank’s portfolio of investment projects to be implemented in single-industry towns contains 51 projects aimed at the financial recovery and upgrading of city-forming enterprises and the diversification of the single-industry towns’ economy. The projects implementation is expected to create more than 11 thousand new jobs and help maintain over 33 thousand of existing jobs Vnesh­econom­bank has implemented or is in the process Vnesh­econom­bank reviewed and performed various stages of implementation of single-industry town projects, their total value of expert evaluation of 31 single-industry town projects, their being RUB 227.8 bn including Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment total value being RUB 379.9 bn including Vnesh­econom­bank’s of RUB 158.8 bn commitment of RUB 211.4 bn Post-Reporting Period Events In February 2013 the Government of the Russian Federation approved the Stimulus Package Encouraging Sustainable Development of Single-industry Towns for the Period of 2013-2018. Vnesh­econom­bank was delegated new tasks of developing and implementing the mechanisms of supporting the economy of single-industry towns and attracting investors to newly-formed industrial sites 37 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.2.4. Development of North Caucasian Federal District A primary objective formulated by the Strategy of SoNCDC works along the following 2 lines: cial and Economic Development of the North Caucasian Federal District until 2025 is the encouragement • investment activities supporting strategically imporof investment activities in the region. The relating optant and viable projects in the region; erations are coordinated by the North Caucasus Development Corporation (NCDC) established in 2010 • advisory support aimed at attraction of additional as a joint-stock company wholly owned by Vnesh­ private investments and state support, development econom­bank to improve the social and economic sitof industrial parks and promotion of territorial clusuation, attract investments and create new jobs in the ters, generation of model projects for future-orientregion. ed industries (including standard business plans and their dissemination), improvement of the reNCDC seeks to exploit the natural advantages of the gion’s image, etc. North Caucasus in tourist industry, agro-industrial, mining and manufacturing industries presently unIn 2012 NCDC continued to generate the investment derdeveloped due to, among other things, inadequate portfolio which increased during the year from RUB access to off-budgetary financing and the lack of ap94 mn to RUB 2 bn. To finance NCDC’s involvement propriate investment projects. in the regional investment projects in 2012 Vnesh­ econom­bank increased the corporation’s authorized capital from RUB 0.5 bn to RUB 3.6 bn. The NCDC’s Strategy 2011-2015 stipulates the formation within 3 years of an investment portfolio of 30 to 40 projects totaling RUB 12-15 bn As of 2012 year end NCDC took a decision to finance panies. The projects are expected to create over 1.8 7 investment projects worth RUB 28.3 bn implying thousand jobs and 5.8 thousand jobs in the related the NCDC’s commitment of RUB 5.1 bn in the form industries, with the expected annual increase in tax of equity investment in the capital of operator comreceipts approximating to RUB 1.8 bn. Underlying NCDC’s activities are clear and transparent decision-making principles and project selection criteria. Evaluation and monitoring of projects co-implemented by NCDC are regulated by the NCDC’s investment policies. The policies are based on the ISO 26000:2010 standard “Guidelines on Social Responsibility” as regards the projects’ social and economic impacts As part of its consulting activities, NCDC conducted a ing in respect of state support options. In 2012 two of preliminary scrutiny of 13 projects eligible for consultthe projects worth RUB 6.5 bn obtained state guaranBACK TO CONTENTS 38 Investment in Sustainability tee support of RUB 3.5 bn. The projects will result in with up-to-date and prompt information on the promore than 500 jobs and generate annual tax receipts gress of investment projects, coordination among of RUB 369 mn. local authorities, investors and other investment entities and ensure information support for potential In 2012 NCDC contributed to development of the Ininvestors. Alongside that, NCDC participated in elabtegrated Information System designed for monitoring orating the Integrated Development Concept for the investment activities in the North Caucasian Federal Caucasian Mineral Waters Region for the period of up District. The system will provide Russian authorities to 2025. North Caucasus Mountain Club Project Project initiator: NCDC Total project value: RUB 210 mn NCDC commitment: RUB 210 mn The North Caucasus Mountain Club project is intended for development of adventure and eco-tourism in the North Caucasian Federal District. The project provides for constructing an integrated tourist infrastructure in the North Caucasus. A key element of the project is launching of a tour along the Greater Caucasus Mountain Range named “Alan Trail: from Elbrus to Kazbek”. The tour required rehabilitation of a number of upland roads and arrangement of recreation facilities and overnight lodgings in highland villages and tent camps. The tour campaign will be launched in 2013. Besides, a complex of highland module shelters is created on the southern shoulder of Elbrus based on the eco-friendly mountain huts produced by LEAP (Italy). The huts have a good record in Europe and North America, require minimum service and are actually self-sufficient due to the solar assisted power supply and the use of energy-efficient technologies, materials and equipment. The project will improve the region’s image as a country’s major tourist resort area and is expected to create about 200 jobs. The projected annual tax receipts will approximate to RUB 9 mn. 39 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.2.5. Far East and Baikal Region Development Supporting the priority development of the Far East are specified in the Fund’s Memorandum on Investand the Baikal region (hereinafter referred to as the ment Policies. macroregion) is Vnesh­econom­bank’s major business line. Its urgency is motivated by the strategic imporThe Fund fosters integrated investment activities tance of the macroregion and the numerous infrathrough supporting infrastructure and industrial prostructure constraints impeding its investment attracjects in the Far East and the Baikal region. The Fund’s tiveness. investment priorities include modernization and new construction of the transport, energy, engineering, In November 2011, to encourage investment activtourist, recreational and social infrastructure including ities in the macroregion, Vnesh­ econom­ bank estabhousing, education, healthcare, culture and sports falished the Far East and Baikal Region Development cilities, public and local administration facilities, as well Fund. The Fund is wholly-owned by the Bank. Its major as economic cooperation and integration projects beinvestment business lines and performance indicators tween Russia and Asia-Pacific countries. In December 2012 the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation granted to Vnesh­econom­bank a subsidy of RUB 15 bn to support an additional share issue of the Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund. The funds will be used to finance priority investment projects designed to develop the industrial, transport and energy infrastructure in the macroregion In 2012 the Fund made up a portfolio of potentially also prepared and submitted to the Government of worthwhile investment projects, specified the priorithe Russian Federation its proposals for improving the ty business lines, and determined the principles and PPP regulatory framework. methods of the Fund’s investment efforts. The Fund BACK TO CONTENTS 40 Investment in Sustainability 2.3. Innovative Development Projects Vnesh­econom­bank has a leading role to play in devising by development institutions of a comprehensive and well-balanced system of innovation project support, which could be viewed as an overriding condition for implementing the Strategy for Innovative Development of the Russian Federation for the Period of 2020. An integrated use by development institutions of the available financial and non-financial instruments encourages the promotion of promising investment projects at all stages of the investment cycle 2.3.1. Innovative Project Support Mechanisms Developing the financial infrastructure for innovation econom­ bank, include SME Bank, Russian Venture support in Russia is a priority line of Vnesh­econom­ Company (RVC), ROSNANO, the Skolkovo Foundabank’s endeavors. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Development tion, the Fund for Assistance in Development of Small Strategy 2011-2015 stipulates targeted financing of Forms of Enterprises in Science and Technology, the high-technology and innovative projects and an inAll-Russian Public Organization of Small and Medicreased share of such projects in the loan portfolio as um Businesses “OPORA Rossii”, the Russian Fund for well as enhanced cooperation with other development Technology Development, etc. institutions in innovative project support. The parties to the Agreement explore and determine In 2010, to coordinate the innovative project monitorthe needs of innovative companies and their access to ing and implementation by development institutions, instruments and services required for efficient busiVnesh­econom­bank initiated a multilateral Agreement ness operations in Russia and on the global market. on Interaction among Development Institutions and Pursuant to the Agreement, the parties continuously Stakeholders in Ensuring Continuous Financing of exchange information on innovative projects enaInnovative Projects throughout the Innovation Cybling, when necessary, their further implementation cle. The Agreement participants, apart from Vnesh­ by appropriate parties to the Agreement. 41 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Under the multilateral Agreement, the mechanisms of innovative project support were developed applying available investment vehicles. Support was given to more than 170 projects The day-to-day activities of the parties are coordinated ed. The Bank acted as a co-developer of the Register. by a standing working group set up by Vnesh­econom­ The Register was created on the instruction of the bank. In 2012 the working group discussed a number Government of the Russian Federation to increase the of issues including those relating to developing inforoutput of innovative products and services. At the time mation and communication services for the innovaof launching it comprised 110 innovative products intive market participants, facilitating access to the decluding 8 products developed by companies that qualvelopment institutions’ resources, primarily for SMEs ified for Vnesh­econom­bank’s support. The Register is engaged in industrial production and innovations, as published at www.innoprod.startbase.ru. well as in implementing the program of promoting innovative and inventive activities in 2012-2013. As at 01.01.2013, Vnesh­econom­bank extended credit facilities to finance 50 innovative projects totalling In November 2012 the Register of Innovative ProdRUB 869.4 bn including Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitucts, Technologies and Services Recommended for ment of RUB 534.0 bn. Use in the Russian Federation was operationally testMoscow International Open Innovations Forum The first Moscow International Forum for Innovative Development “Open Innovations” held on 31 October to 3 November 2012 was organized by the leading Russian development institutions including Vnesh­econom­bank as well as the Government of Moscow. The Forum presents a global platform for discussing leading-edge technologies and prospects of international cooperation in the field of innovations. Its major goal is strengthening international cooperation to form a club of innovative leaders. The Forum was attended by more than 5 thousand representatives of business, public and academic community from 42 Russian regions and 38 countries of the world. The Forum included the Open Innovations Expo exhibition displaying over 1000 innovative products and technologies from 17 countries. During the Forum and the Open Innovations Expo Vnesh­econom­bank arranged consultations on the Bank’s potential participation in procuring and delivering of investment projects. Managers of major innovative companies and high-technology market analysts polled by the Centre for Regional Problems Study ranked the Open Innovations Forum 2nd among the 2012 innovative events. The Forum is expected to be held annually. The 2nd Open Innovations Forum is scheduled for 31 October to 2 November 2013. BACK TO CONTENTS 42 Investment in Sustainability As at 01.01.2013, the share of innovative projects accounted for 33.7% of the Bank’s loan portfolio. In 2012 the Bank’s Governing Bodies approved participation in 15 innovative projects with the total project value of RUB 235.3 bn including Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment of RUB 100.3 bn Development of Express-AM7 Space Vehicle Total project value: RUB 8.3 bn Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment: Euro 124.6 mn Borrower: Federal State Unitary Enterprise “Space Communications” The project’s objective is to create the Express-AM7 space vehicle to be launched for the purpose of developing the Russian orbital group of the national broadcasting and communication satellites. The project is included in the Federal Space Program of Russia for the Period from 2006 to 2015 and the Federal Target Program “Development of Television and Radio Broadcasting in the Russian Federation from 2006 to 2015”. The project implementation covers a period of 18 years. The Express-AM7 launching will increase the satellite capacity to provide the population of Russian regions with the state-of-the-art communications and will ensure intensive development of new infocomm technologies. The expected aggregate direct budgetary effect of the project amounts to RUB 2.5 bn. Additionally, the project will create new jobs including those for highly skilled specialists. 43 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Project on Creating an Innovative Complex for Development and Manufacture of Medicinal Products Based on Bioand Nanotechnologies Project initiator: FORT LLC Total project value: RUB 4.8 bn Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment: RUB 4.4 bn The project’s objective is to build in Ryazan Region pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities meeting the standards of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medicinal Products — GMP. The Complex will ensure the performance of the full production cycle of innovative medicinal products such as vaccines, probiotics, bacteriophages, drugs for multiple sclerosis, kidney failure, prostate diseases, leukemia, hepatitis B and C, etc. Most of the drugs will be based on new production technologies or innovative composition. Some of the drugs will be domestic analogues of expensive imported drugs currently covering the 100% of the Russian market. Upon reaching the design output, the Complex will annually manufacture 129 mn individual packages. The project is expected to create more than 500 jobs. Direct budgetary effect will amount to RUB 4.8 bn. 2.3.2. Support for Skolkovo Foundation Projects Vnesh­ econom­ bank is actively involved in creation also responsible for developing innovative programs of the Skolkovo Innovation Centre that is unique for of the Russian Government, developing innovation Russia. The Centre will focus on introducing new infrastructure, attracting to Russia advanced foreign technologies and competitive world-class developtechnologies and promoting Russian innovations in ments in the Russian economy. Vnesh­econom­bank the global market. is a co-founder of the Skolkovo Foundation responsible for the centre creation and rendering financial In addition to its core investment activities, the VEB-Inassistance to the Skolkovo Foundation’s innovative novations Fund is promoting development of infraprojects through its wholly owned subsidiary the structure for the Russian innovations market. In 2012 VEB-Innovations Fund. in cooperation with the High School of Economics, the Fund established the Club of Directors for Science and The objective of the VEB-Innovations Fund is to fiInnovations. The Club became a professional forum nance the Skolkovo Foundation’s innovative projects for representatives of 60 major Russian companies at the R&D and commercialization stages. The Fund is actively engaged in the innovative processes. BACK TO CONTENTS 44 Investment in Sustainability Areas of Support for Skolkovo Foundation Projects Information technologies Energy-efficient VEB-Innovations Fund renders project support Nuclear technologies technologies to all the 5 Skolkovo Foundation clusters Space technologies Biomedical technologies and telecommunications As at 01.01.2013, the VEB-Innovations Fund approved the funding of 9 projects proposed by Skolkovo residents with the total value of RUB 259 mn. In 2013 the Fund plans to allocate about RUB 300 mn to support the Skolkovo Foundation’s innovative projects 2.3.3. Cooperation with the Agency for Strategic Initiatives Vnesh­econom­bank puts a particular emphasis on the • young professionals — fostering the country’s prointeraction with the Agency for Strategic Initiatives fessional and HR development; (ASI) created in 2011 by the Government of the Russian Federation to improve the investment climate and • social projects — promoting socially important inienable young leaders to self-realize. ASI works along tiatives. the following 3 main lines: Vnesh­ econom­ bank provides ASI with investment • new businesses — supporting young talented busiconsulting and participates in raising funds for the nessmen; agency’s projects. Alongside that, Vnesh­econom­bank performs an express-analysis of the ASI projects and 45 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT initiatives along the “Young Professionals” and “Social In 2012 amendments were made to the Guidelines for Projects” lines. On the outcome of the analysis, Vnesh­ Expert Evaluation of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Investment econom­bank’s Chairman is offered recommendations Projects. That concerns the projects supported by the on the voting options at the ASI Supervisory Board ASI and introducing a simplified evaluation procedure meetings. that will include solely a comprehensive expert evaluation. In 2012 ASI submitted to Vnesh­econom­bank 7 investment projects worth totally RUB 15.5 bn. As of the year end, the projects were scrutinized by various investment departments of Vnesh­econom­bank. Within the framework of investment consulting, Vnesh­econom­bank scrutinized 12 ASI projects, with 11 projects returned for revision. Investment consulting services procured under the project on implementing innovative technologies of leak stoppage for pressure were completed in 2012 BACK TO CONTENTS 46 Investment in Sustainability 2.4. Nature Conservation and Energy Projects Vnesh­econom­bank’s engagement in nature conservation and energy projects is directly compliant to the State Policies of Environmental Development of the Russian Federation for the Period of up to 2030 adopted in 2012 and aimed, inter alia, at the environment-oriented economy growth and environment-friendly innovative technologies 2.4.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Environmental Projects Vnesh­econom­bank carries out investment activities As at 01.01.2013, Vnesh­econom­bank participated in strictly observing the principle of environmental re24 nature conservation and environment protection sponsibility according to which the Bank would not projects with the total value of RUB 440.0 bn and participate in any projects failing to meet nature conVnesh­econom­bank’s commitment — RUB 312.4 bn, servation requirements and environmental standards. and in 27 energy projects worth totally RUB 538.7 bn The Bank’s investment priorities include nature conincluding RUB 296.3 bn invested by Vnesh­econom­ servation, environment improvement and energy effibank. ciency projects. As at 01.01.2013, the share of nature conservation and environment protection projects in the Bank’s loan portfolio reached 19.6% exceeding 13.3% recorded as of the end of the previous year. The share of energy projects remained unchanged showing 18.9% In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank’s governing bodies apment RUB 199.1 bn, and 7 energy projects with the proved engagement in 8 nature conservation and total value of RUB 239.9 bn including Vnesh­econom­ environment protection projects with the total value bank’s commitment of RUB 106.4 bn. of RUB 238.9 bn and Vnesh­econom­bank’s commit47 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Dried Lumber Mill in Amursk, Khabarovsk Territory Total project value: USD 120.2 mn Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment: USD 84.2 mn Project initiator: OJSC Dallesprom The project provides for the construction of a dried lumber mill with a total annual output of 230 thousand cu m and the upgrading of the existing chipboard production to increase the annual output to 50 thousand cu m. Actually, 100% of the output is expected to be exported to Asia-Pacific countries. The project relates to Stage II of the Concept of the Integrated Timber Processing Cluster — the Far Eastern Advanced Timber Processing Centre. The Concept envisages development of a complex of complementary timber processing enterprises using a non-waste technology for the timber supplied by Dallesprom. The complex operations will be based on the principles of self-sufficiency, integrated timber utilization, non-waste production combining high economic efficiency with the forest conservation tasks and global environmental standards. The project is expected to create 330 new jobs, the direct budgetary effect will amount to RUB 920.0 mn. Overhaul of Nizhneturinskaya State-Owned District Power Station in Nizhnyaya Tura, Sverdlovsk Region Total project value: RUB 21.7 bn Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment: RUB 15.5 bn Project initiator: CJSC Integrated Power Systems The project’s objective is the construction of 2 state-of-the-art combined-cycle gas and steam turbineplants with the total installed electric capacity of 460 MW and the installed thermal capacity of 515 gigacalories. The project implementation period is 15 years including 3 years of the investment stage. The project provides for the installation of advanced power equipment based on the supercharged boiler cycle maximizing the fuel (natural gas) utilization factor resulting in low specific fuel consumption. The plants under construction are included in the list of generating plants to be employed under the capacity supply agreements approved by the Government of the Russian Federation. The project is expected to create in Nizhnyaya Tura 60 new jobs, with the direct budgetary effect being RUB 9.7 bn. BACK TO CONTENTS 48 Investment in Sustainability 2.4.2. BelVEB’s Environmental Projects When scrutinizing investment projects, BelVEB is project on building up an export-oriented woodworkguided by the Law of the Republic of Belarus “On Ening enterprise in Lelchitsky District, Gomel Region, vironment Protection” specifying the legal framework stipulating the production of pellets to replace pollutunderlying environment protection, natural resource ing energy sources. management, conservation and regeneration of biological diversity and natural resources. Within the framework of the State Program of Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus for the BelVEB’s credit policies forbid financing of any proPeriod from 2011 to 2015, BelVEB funded the A420 jects which may cause damage to environment, peohybrid bus design by the Management Company of ple’s health and safety. Expert evaluation of project Belkommunmash Holding (Open Joint Stock Compabusiness plans is based on environmental assessment ny). The city bus prototype made in 2012 demonstratincluding the analysis of future environmental imed a ten-fold reduction in exhaust emission and 25% pact, waste volume, suggested sites of waste disposal to 50% fuel saving. and treatment. Construction projects are funded by BelVEB based on the state environmental appraisal BelVEB is also involved in funding the manufacturing provided for by the Law “On Architectural Activities, by CJSC ATLANT of a new generation of energy-savUrban Planning and Construction in the Republic of ing household appliances. In 2012 ATLANT continBelarus”. ued to manufacture the A and A+ energy efficiency refrigerators and the A++ energy efficiency washing In 2012 BelVEB participated in a number of nature machines and demonstrated a prototype A+++ energy conservation and energy projects. These included the efficient refrigerator. 2.4.3. Prominvestbank’s Alternative Energy Projects Prominvestbank is actively engaged in implementing Fuhrlander (Germany), the world leader in wind powUkraine’s state policies on alternative energy develer engineering. The 1st stage of the project provides opment saving traditional fuel and power resources, for the deployment of a wind park consisting of 10 enhancing energy efficiency and reducing adverse enwind-driven power plants with the planned capacity of vironmental impacts through the reduction of green25 MW and the expected annual power generation of house gas emissions. about 80 thousand MWh. In 2012 Prominvestbank participated in 3 alternative Prominvestbank is also involved in a 44.6 MW solar energy projects including the construction by LLC power plant construction in Odessa Region for the Wind Park Kerchenski in Kerch District of a wind powpurpose of helioenergetics development provided for er station employing the technology and equipment of by Ukraine’s Energy Strategy for the period of up to 49 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2030. The project is implemented by LLC Limanskaya Prominvestbank solar energy initiatives also include Energy and is included in the list of strategic priority the “Active Solar” investment project guaranteeing payinvestment activities relating to new and renewable ments for equipment for 5 solar power plants with the energy sources approved by the Supreme Rada of total capacity of 110 MW in the Autonomous Republic Ukraine for the period from 2003 to 2013. of Crimea to be supplied by the China National Corporation for Export and Import of construction materials. Future Development of Baikal Pulp-and-Paper Mill In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank established VEB Engineering to perform a feasibility study of the future development of OJSC Baikal Pulp-and-Paper Mill (BPPM). The feasibility study was initiated by Igor Shuvalov, First Deputy Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation, under the Action Plan intended to stabilize the situation at BPPM. The urgency of the feasibility study is attributable to: • stressful environmental situation resulting from the cumulative environmental damage (the volume of accumulated industrial waste around the mill being 6.2 mn t) and the incompatibility of BPPM production with the environmental safety of Baikal; • social pressures at the mill and in the single-industry town of Baikalsk caused by the mill’s future uncertainty. The feasibility study included 2 baseline scenarios of BPPM future development: the mill modernization or shutdown followed by the creation of a SEZ. The analysis of technical, economic, social and environmental factors performed by VEB Engineering showed that it was necessary to close down the mill and eliminate the cumulative environmental damage. The feasibility study results were submitted to the Government of the Russian Federation which adopted a decision on the mill’s closure. Essentially, the scenarios were analyzed based on environmental criteria given a special status of the local area and social criteria as the mill was a backbone enterprise. By now an action plan has been prepared for the mill shutdown including: • elimination of the cumulative environmental damage; • renovation of utilities, water supply, water disposal and heat supply systems following the mill’s shutdown; • solving the social problems faced by the mill employees and the people living in Baikalsk; • development of the BPPM industrial site and Slyudyansky District. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank’s governing bodies approved financing of the stabilization project. BPPM shutdown and the creation of a SEZ will provide for the environmental safety of Baikal and the adjacent territory as well as mitigate the social pressures, primarily through the development of tourism and the relating industries, as well as SMEs. BACK TO CONTENTS 50 Investment in Sustainability 2.5. Export Support Projects Vnesh­econom­bank’s support for national exports is aimed at enhanced competitiveness of Russian industrial manufacturers under circumstances of intense competition with foreign companies. Promotion of high-technology products, intellectual services and deepconversion products in the foreign markets is a crucial prerequisite of raising Russia’s competitiveness ensuring economy diversification, overcoming the commodities export dependence, fostering modernization and grappling with the global financial and economic crises 2.5.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Activities on Supporting National Exports To promote national exports, Vnesh­econom­bank prothe development of the national exports, including vides financial and guarantee support to Russian exhigh interest rates and short tenors of export loans porters and foreign importers of the Russian non-reextended by Russian banks as well as the high credit source based and high-technology products thus risks of the principal consumers of the Russian export contributing to the mitigation of challenges impeding products such as Latin America, the CIS, Africa, etc. In 2012 the Credit Committee of Vnesh­econom­bank approved the Bank’s engagement in financing export projects in the amount of USD 1,007.74 mn. Vnesh­econom­bank issued 137 guarantees totaling RUB 36.4 bn including 74 guarantees for RUB 34.44 bn to support exports. At present, Vnesh­econom­ bank scrutinizes a number of aircraft industry, transport and power engineering projects by Russian exporters with the total value of USD 2.64 bn Vnesh­econom­bank is faced with the task of providing Bank in cooperation with EXIAR developed a proceintegrated support for the Russian high-technology dure of financial support by Vnesh­econom­bank and exports involving the Group members. To this end, the its subsidiaries for exports of Russian high-technology 51 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT products. The procedure provides for optimizing coopperiod of reviewing proposals submitted by foreign eration among the Group members and reducing the customers and Russian exporters. Post-Reporting Period Events The procedure of financial support by Vnesh­econom­bank and its subsidiaries for exports of Russian high-technology products was reviewed by the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and approved by the Management Board of Vnesh­econom­bank on 13 June 2013 In 2012 Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s Memorandum on Fition and for the purpose of partially subsidizing internancial Policies was amended to enable the Bank to est rates on export credits extended to foreign buyers finance export projects on delivery of Russian goods, of the Russian products, Vnesh­econom­bank initiated works and services when the terms of a tender arthe corresponding changes in the applicable regularanged by a foreign consumer require that the amount tions of the Russian Federation. of financing should cover not only the cost of Russian products but also local costs associated with the exThe proposals of Vnesh­econom­bank were reflected in port project. The amendments were initiated by Vnesh­ the Regulations of the Russian Government for Fedeconom­bank within the framework of its participation eral Budget Subsidies in the Form of an Asset Contriin the interagency working group for harmonizing the bution of the Russian Federation to State Corporation applicable Russian regulations for state financial sup“Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs port for exports with the OECD standards. (Vnesh­econom­bank)” to Partially Reimburse the Costs Associated with the Support for High-Technology In October 2012 the Supervisory Board of Vnesh­ Products resulting in the transfer to Vnesh­econom­ econom­bank took a decision on charging competitive bank of RUB 3 bn in state subsidies in December interest rates on financing amounts provided by the 2012. state for the Russian hi-tech exports. In this connecPost-Reporting Period Events At the meeting held in the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation in February 2013 a decision was taken to improve the Regulations for Federal Budget Subsidies in the Form of an Asset Contribution of the Russian Federation to State Corporation “Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs (Vnesh­econom­bank)” to Partially Reimburse the Costs Associated with the Support for High-Technology Products subject to the WTO and OECD requirements to minimize the risk of having the document provisions disputed by the WTO and OECD member countries BACK TO CONTENTS 52 Investment in Sustainability Support for Exports of Sukhoi Superjet 100 Aircraft Family In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank’s governing bodies approved the opening of credit facilities to foreign buyers of the Sukhoi Superjet 100 aircraft family with a total drawdown limit of USD 2.5 bn for a term of up to 12 years. The loans are expected to be extended under leasing agreements involving VEB-Leasing and EXIAR insurance. Vnesh­econom­bank has already approved the opening of credit facilities to: • a specialized leasing company Air Finance Limited to cover the price of 3 Sukhoi Superjet 100 passenger aircraft to be leased to Lao Central Airlines Public Company (the Lao People’s Democratic Republic) with Vnesh­econom­bank’s commitment of USD 67.24 mn; • a specialized leasing company Maple Aviation Leasing GmbH to cover the price of 3 Sukhoi Superjet 100 passenger aircraft to be leased to PT Sky Aviation (the Republic of Indonesia) with Vnesh­econom­ bank’s commitment of USD 81 mn. Furthermore, Vnesh­econom­bank and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Indonesia concluded a loan agreement under which Vnesh­econom­bank will extend to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Indonesia a loan of USD 399.5 mn for a term of up to 7 years. The funds will be allocated to finance the deliveries of Russian aircraft equipment to the Republic of Indonesia within the framework of an export contract between OJSC Rosoboronexport and the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Indonesia. Presently Vnesh­econom­bank scrutinizes a USD 435 mn project on financing the purchase by ABC Aerolineas SA (InterJet), Mexico, of 20 Sukhoi Superjet 100 aircraft produced by Sukhoi Civil Aircraft CJSC. 2.5.2. Implementation of State Export Support Policies by Roseximbank Pursuant to the Concept of State Financial/Guarantee • pursuing in line with the programs on cooperation Support for Industrial Exports in the Russian Federwith international financial institutions a uniform ation, Roseximbank acts as an agent for the Russian state policy of implementing investment projects Government in rendering state financial support for aimed at supporting industrial exports and modthe Russian exports and is responsible for: ernizing the Russian exporters’ enterprises for the purpose of subsequent manufacturing of high val• implementing the state policies of guarantee supue-added export products; port for Russian exports aimed at enhanced competitiveness of Russian exporters on traditional • promoting the industrial products of Russian exemerging markets and the CIS; porters in the markets; 53 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • ensuring access for Russian exporters to long-term both on a commercial and non-commercial basis resources including pre-export loans at the mini(those supported by state guarantees); mum market rates. • acts as an agent for extending mediumand longTo implement the state policies of supporting the Rusterm loans for export projects drawing on or involvsian exports, Roseximbank: ing the federal budget resources; • acts as an agent bank for: • raises on favourable terms public and private financial resources including those provided by interna– issuing and executing state guarantees of the Rustional financial institutions to finance export operasian Federation for Russian industrial exporters, tions and investment projects; Russian and foreign banks granting credits to Russian exporters, importers and for non-resident • extends loans to exporters. banks and foreign states for the purpose of industrial exports; In the performance of its agency functions, Roseximbank has developed and successfully offers the fol– issuing and executing state guarantees of the lowing products: Russian Federation to support projects delivered in cooperation with international financial institu• export credits to foreign states, foreign importers of tions; Russian products/services or to non-resident banks providing services to importers; • issues on its own behalf guarantees requested by Russian exporters (tender guarantees, advanced • investment loans including those extended under payment guarantees, performance guarantees) the programs of cooperation with international financial institutions; Volume of Loans Extended by ROSEXOMBANK by Type of Activities as of 01.01.2013 14% Manufacturing 5% Pulp-and-paper industry, publishing and printing 38% Vehicle and equipment manufacturing 6% Wholesale and retail trade, vehicle, household equipment and personal articles repair Real estate operations, lease and related services Agriculture, hunting and rendering of related services 11% Other 12% 14% BACK TO CONTENTS 54 Investment in Sustainability • pre-export financing of product and service export• loans (to replenish current assets or perform parers; ticular operations) to highly profitable industrial, transport, communications, financial and service • loans to Roseximbank’s strategic customers — parsector enterprises, etc.; ticipants (or potential participants) in international investment programs co-implemented by Rosex• documentary operations. imbank and enterprisers granted (or scheduled to be granted) state financial/guarantee support; Roseximbank is a vehicle to implement state policies of supporting and encouraging Russian exports of high value-added products. The geographical reach of Roseximbank customers’ export operations covers both the developed markets such as Sweden, Norway, Finland and the emerging markets such as Angola, Ecuador, Cuba, Bulgaria and the CIS countries In 2012, to support Russian industrial exports, RosexThe most significant 2012 Roseximbank’s transimbank arranged issuance of 5 state guarantees for action was a syndicated loan of USD 278.5 mn exthe total amount equivalent to USD 468.6 mn. Durtended to deliver a project on developing a national ing the period under review, the Board of Directors of communications and broadcasting satellite system Roseximbank also considered 5 applications for state in Angola. guarantees totaling USD 1.122 bn and approved the issuance of state guarantees for USD 242.1 mn. Post-Reporting Period Events In 2013, pursuant to the resolution adopted by the Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation, Roseximbank was authorized to support the SME exports of goods, works and services Delivery of Russian Civil Helicopters to Support UN Peace-Keeping Missions In 2012 Roseximbank opened a non-revolving credit facility of up to USD 7.0 mn to Attempo 42 AG (Switzerland). The funds were used for the purchase of 2 Russian civil helicopters (Mi8MTV-1 and Mi8AMT) to be leased to HAWK UNITED TRANSIT CORP providing air services for the UN humanitarian missions. The Russian helicopters will be employed in Sudan and, when necessary, in Congo and Afghanistan by the UN missions for peace-keeping and enforcement of human rights in regions requiring the delivery of humanitarian aid. 55 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.5.3. Activities of Export Insurance Agency of Russia Pursuant to the Development Strategy of Export Insurport-oriented industries in the global markets inance Agency of Russia for the Period of 2012 to 2014, cluding SME support; the EXIAR mission is to assist the state in carrying out foreign economic policies, raise the competitiveness • supporting and promoting the domestic exporters of Russian exporters in the global markets and refoin new high-risk foreign markets and enhancing the cus the national exports towards innovative industries transparency of Russian exports and international in the context of Russia’s economy modernization. investments; The Strategy specifies EXIAR’s 2012-2014 objectives • making up a well-balanced portfolio of risks insured as follows: by EXIAR subject to the export support priorities to maintain EXIAR financial sustainability; • developing an efficient system of insurance support for exports of Russian products and invest• introducing and developing in Russia credit insurments abroad involving financial support by Vnesh­ ance practices as an independent industry resulting econom­ bank and the Government along the 2 in the development of a risk-management culture principal lines: among the Russian exporters. – insuring export credits against entrepreneurial/ EXIAR operations are subject to availability of a state commercial and political risks; guarantee covering obligations assumed by the Agency within the framework of its activities so that the EX– insuring Russian investments abroad against poIAR insurance contracts were fully secured by state litical risks; support. In December 2012 EXIAR received a USD 10 bn state guarantee of the Russian Federation for • formulating proposals for export credits insurance a term of 20 years securing Vnesh­econom­bank’s oblithat would facilitate hi-tech exports and enhance gations under the bank guarantee issued to the benethe competitiveness of Russian innovative exficiaries under EXIAR contracts. EXIAR aims to become a member of the international insurance and credit system acting in accordance with international practices and standards. In May 2012 EXIAR became a full-fledged member of the Prague Club incorporating export credit and investment insurers thus making the first move towards membership in the International Union of Credit and Investment Insurers (Berne Union) to gain access to global practices of risk assessment, claims settlement and economic trend analysis BACK TO CONTENTS 56 Investment in Sustainability The insurance products offered by EXIAR conform to fying basic approaches to the analysis of export prothe Berne Union standards replicating the range of jects and the associated risks, subsequent monitoring instruments offered by major ECAs. In 2012 EXIAR of the insured risks and their re-allocation through developed the insurance regulations and the relating reinsurance. documents for the following 4 types of insurance: EXIAR activities are based on OECD Arrangement on • buyer’s credit insurance; Guidelines for Officially-supported Export Credits regulating the provisions of official export credit support. • supplier’s credit insurance; EXIAR’s communication policies stipulate position• confirmed L/Cs insurance; ing the Agency as the Russian national export credit agency operating in the global professional arena. To • comprehensive export credit insurance. this end, in February 2012 EXIAR in cooperation with Vnesh­econom­bank and supported by the Berne Union Additionally, in 2012 EXIAR developed a regulatory arranged an international conference “Export Insurframework required to launch regular export credit ance Support. Global Experience”. insurance including the Underwriting Policies speciEXIAR Insurance Portfolio by Region EXIAR Insurance Portfolio by Primary Line as of January 1, 2013 of Operations as of January 1, 2013 4.7% 12% 5.3% 1% 2% 14.5% 5% 75.5% 80% Asia Power engineering Former USSR republics Aircraft Europe Radio electronics and electronic engineering Latin America Products of vegetable and animal origin Other industries, services and works 57 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The 2012 year results show that EXIAR rendered insurance support to 15 export projects of the Russian exporters including SMEs, with the total amount of insured exports reaching RUB 14 bn EXIAR is seeking to allocate its insurance capacity securing access to new markets, increasing the volamong the Russian regions and industries. Strategicalume of high-technology and innovative exports. ly important industries primarily include high-technology and innovative industries of the Russian economy, In the medium term, EXIAR intends to offer its servicas well as high value-added industries most significant es and competences to SMEs globally recognized as for the Russian economy. Priority regional consumers the centres of innovative product development. To this of the Russian exports include the key partners of the end, EXIAR will develop special products and software Russian Federation capable of strengthening the Rusfacilitating operations and communications between sian exporters’ positions on the traditional markets, the Agency and SMEs. Development of Russian-Belorussian Integration Involving Vnesh­econom­bank and BelVEB. Construction of Belorussian Nuclear Power Plant The Strategy of BelVEB Development for the Period from 2011 to 2015 envisages a special role to be played by BelVEB in the implementation of the two countries’ joint projects in cooperation with Vnesh­ econom­bank. BelVEB is taking an active part in financing the projects designed to strengthen the Russian-Belorussian integration including reciprocal product deliveries by enterprises of the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation. BelVEB became the winner of the Banking Business — 2012 Award for efficiently developing financial relations between Russia and Belarus. In 2012 BelVEB extended to its corporate customers USD 217.7 mn in loans intended for purchasing products in the Russian Federation. The total amount of loans extended to the Belorussian exporters to the Russian Federation reached USD 1,219 mn. In February 2012, under the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Belarus for Extending to the Government of the Republic of Belarus of the State Export Credit for the Construction of a Nuclear Power Plant in the Republic of Belarus, Vnesh­ econom­bank and BelVEB signed an interbank agreement for servicing the state loan extended for the nuclear power plant construction. BACK TO CONTENTS 58 Investment in Sustainability 2.6. Promoting PPP Mechanisms In the circumstances of budgetary constraints public authorities and local government experience the need for leveraging public resources with the capabilities of private business for developing public infrastructure. The problem may be solved through the promotion of the PPP mechanisms giving a strong impetus to the economic growth, introduction of innovations and improvement of the quality of people’s life 2.6.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Activities Aimed at Developing PPP Mechanisms Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities are aimed at promoting ceptable to the Government, society and the business the PPP mechanisms to raise the off-budget funding community. for infrastructure projects on terms reasonably acAssistance to Federal Authorities and Local Government in Solving Regional and Urban Development Problems Applying PPP Mechanisms The total value of Vnesh­econom­bank consulting services provided in 2012 amounted to Investment consulting RUB 93.22 mn In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank drafted a new version of the regional model law “On ParticRegional law development ipation of RF Constituent Entities in the Public-Private Partnership’s” and prepared legal opinions on the laws on participations of the 3 RF constituent entities in PPP projects As of January 1, 2013 the total amount of financial support approved within the framework FARMPD of the FARMPD was RUB 997.5 mn In 2012 the training events arranged by the PPP Chair of the Finance University under the Development of public and Russian Government established in cooperation with Vnesh­econom­bank were attended by municipal staff training scheme over 260 students, another 16 students joined the PPP Project Management master program 59 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vnesh­ econom­ bank is involved in financing major regional and urban development projects, forming the Russian PPP projects. With a view to taking the PPP regulatory framework governing application of the project market forward, the Bank renders to public PPP mechanisms at the federal and regional level, authorities and local government financial and non-fipreparing proposals for enhanced efficiency of the exnancial assistance designed to solve the regional and isting PPP models and developing new ones, dissemiurban development problems employing the PPP nating advanced expertise and experience in the PPP solutions. These include investment consulting on project procurement. PPP project generation and procurement, funding of 2.6.2. PPP Legislative Framework The draft federal law “On Public-Private Partnership Pending the enactment of the federal law specifying in the Russian Federation” prepared in 2012 with the the principal lines of the PPP rule-making, the regions assistance of Vnesh­econom­bank became a milestone restrained their legislative efforts. In 2012 8 conevent enabling attraction of private investments in stituent entities of the Russian Federation enacted implementation of the public infrastructure developregional laws on engagement in PPP projects. Vnesh­ ment projects. That was designed to make up for the econom­bank prepared 3 of the respective legal opinlack of legislative instruments governing PPPs at the ions concerning Republic of Buryatia, Vladimir and federal level. The federal law is expected to be enacted Orenburg Regions. in 2013. As at 01.01.2013, regional laws on engagement in PPP projects were enacted in 62 out of 83 Russian constituent entities including 27 regions where Vnesh­ econom­bank assisted in the PPP legislative development In 2012 to improve the PPP regional legislative framebidding documentation. The aim was to improve apwork, Vnesh­econom­bank drafted a new version of the plicable and newly drafted laws, as well as to upgrade regional model law “On Engagement of Constituent the quality of the PPP projects generated by public Entities of the Russian Federation in the Public-Private authorities. Partnership” designing PPP standard contractual and BACK TO CONTENTS 60 Investment in Sustainability 2.6.3. Investment Consulting The PPP investment consulting services provided by Development of the Russian Federation. All the proVnesh­econom­bank are aimed at supporting by public jects were positively assessed by Vnesh­econom­bank’s authorities and local government of industry, regionprofessionals and approved by the Government Comal or urban development strategies involving the PPP mission for Projects of National, Regional and Intermechanisms. Vnesh­econom­bank acted as an investregional Importance. The total value of the consulting ment consultant on the PPP project development services provided by Vnesh­econom­bank inclusive of and procurement. Actually, the Bank’s functions emVAT amounted to RUB 15.52 mn. braced: Also, in 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank monitored projects • financial consulting provided to the Russian Govwhich received allocations from the Investment Fund ernment on eligibility of the tender bids for funding of the Russian Federation under investment agreefrom the Investment Fund of the Russian Federation ments with 17 investors. in compliance with the approved budgetary, financial and economic efficiency criteria; In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank as the sole investment consultant provided advice to the RF constituent • acting as the sole investment consultant to Russian entities to address their needs related to construcconstituent entities on selection of PPP investment tion of water supply and sanitation facilities in Miprojects. ass, Satki and Zlatoust, Chelyabinsk Region, and the construction of a crossover bridge near Podnovie, In the context of reduced budgetary appropriations Nizhniy Novgorod Region. Throughout the year, from the Investment Fund of the Russian Federation, Vnesh­econom­bank also rendered investment advisoreduced aspirations to generate projects qualifying ry services under the PPP project on construction of for budgetary appropriations were witnessed. In 2012 kindergartens in Astrakhan Region. The total cost of Vnesh­econom­bank performed an expert evaluation advisory services provided by Vnesh­econom­bank inof 4 projects presented by the Ministry of Regional clusive of VAT amounted to RUB 77.7 mn. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank considered 36 requests of the Russian constituent entities for provision of investment advisory services under PPP projects aiming to procure social and transport infrastructure, integrated territorial development, municipal housing and public utilities, communications and telecommunications infrastructure 61 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Yaroslavl Region In June 2012, during the Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum, Vnesh­econom­bank and the Government of Yaroslavl Region signed a state contract for investment consulting on the inter-municipal water supply and sanitation project in Yaroslavl Region. For public authorities of Yaroslavl Region, Vnesh­econom­ bank will develop the project concept and design, secure pre-procurement activities enabling delivery of the project and prepare bidding documentation for selecting the PPP contract winner. Drawing on the off-budget funding, the local authorities would be able to provide a complex solution of a major regional problem of the worn-out water supply and sanitation infrastructure hindering the region’s economic development and adversely impacting the quality of life of the local people and environment. 2.6.4. Program for Financial Assistance to Development Projects In 2010 Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s Supervisory Board worth RUB 10.9 bn. The Program operator is the Fedadopted a resolution on implementing between 2011 eral Centre for Project Finance (FCPF), a subsidiary of and 2015 the Program for Financial Assistance to ReVnesh­econom­bank. gional and Municipal Project Development (FARMPD) The Program is intended for rendering financial, advisory and technical assistance to public authorities and local government in respect of the PPP regional and urban development projects The Program provides for reimbursable funding of the – formation of territorial, production and innovaproject development process (including the preparative clusters including development of technology tion of legal documentation, feasibility study, principal platforms and commercialization; design solutions and solicitation to participate in a tender of all the interested parties). The Program en– construction of transportation, engineering and compasses the following areas: social infrastructural assets including creation of infrastructure on the sites intended for integrated • integrated territorial development (regional and inresidential (“affordable housing”) and industrial terregional projects) including: (“new industrialization”) development, SEZ, business incubators, technology and industrial parks; BACK TO CONTENTS 62 Investment in Sustainability – development of the mineral resource base of the • computerization of territories and raising the qualregions, assistance in generating and procuring ity of public and municipal management (upgradinnovative projects for resource processing; ing and constructing multi-purpose administrative centers, e-Government infrastructural assets, • social development (upgrading and construction of broadband Internet service infrastructure). healthcare, education, culture, tourism and sports infrastructural assets); In 2012 the FCPF reviewed 105 proposals for financing project development using the funds of FARMPD, • improvement of environmental safety through upwith 60 of them rejected due to low quality of preparagrading and construction of waste treatment, water tion and poor economic efficiency. Following a prelimsupply and sanitation infrastructure; inary expert evaluation of 43 projects and a comprehensive expert evaluation passed by 9 of the projects, • development of regional and municipal mass transit 4 projects were approved for financing. Apart from it, systems (upgrading and constructing roads, bridgin 2012 the FCPF also won a state contract for prepaes, municipal transport, high-speed trams, airports); ration of the PPP project to construct in Kiev the 4th underground line in the Vygurivshchina-Troeshchina • improvement of energy efficiency of the municipal residential area. pool of real property, district heating and street lighting systems; 2.6.5. Staff Training for PPP Development In 2012 the Public-Private Partnership Chair estabchairs of the Finance University and regional colleges lished by the Finance University under the Governwho attended advanced training courses for teachers. ment of the Russian Federation in cooperation with In September 2012 the Chair launched a two-year Vnesh­econom­bank continued its activities aimed at Master Program “PPP Project Management” joined by implementation of educational programs intended for 16 students. public and municipal authorities and business entities engaged in the PPP projects and for students’ tuition In December 2012 the Chair hosted the master class under the Master Program. “The Public-Private Partnership in the CIS: Best Practices” attended by more than 100 representatives of During the year, the Chair conducted a number of the CIS and Russian regions. The master class was advanced training courses attended by 160 students arranged with the expert support of the United Nafrom 40 constituent entities of the Russian Federtions Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) unation, including 35 teachers representing different der the PPP cooperation agreement between UNECE 63 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and Vnesh­econom­bank. On the outcome of the masucational programs were generally highly acclaimed ter class, the participants worked out the first steps to by the students, with more than 70% of them expressdevelop common approaches to PPP project procureing desire to continue advanced training offered by ment in the CIS. the Chair. That primarily concerns financial modeling, project management, management of risks associated Following each event, the program participants were with the PPP projects, etc. Further on, most of the reinvited to answer a questionnaire revealing the level quests and recommendations expressed in the quesof satisfaction. The contents of the Chair’s 2012 edtionnaires were given due consideration. In 2012 more than 51 thousand unique visits were recorded on the web-site “Public-Private Partnership in Russia” (www.pppinrussia.ru) initiated by Vnesh­ econom­bank in 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS 64 Investment in Sustainability 2.7. Developing Professional Environment in the Area of Investing Activities The functions of a state development institution performed by Vnesh­ econom­bank are closely aligned with the need to develop investment culture and secure enhanced efficiency of investment in the Russian Federation. Vnesh­econom­bank’s educational initiatives in shaping up the professional investment environment are aimed at raising professional awareness of employees involved in investment projects and improving qualifications of the young specialists in investment management 2.7.1. Educational Projects 2012 In 2009, for the purpose of raising professional mentation of large-scale long-term investment proawareness of employees involved in investing activjects. ities, Vnesh­econom­bank launched the educational project “Training of Professional Participants in InThe project’s target audience consists of professionals vestment Projects Co-implemented by Development and executives representing various business entities Institutions”. operating in key branches of economy, representatives of the relevant federal and regional ministries The project’s mission is to assist nurturing the investand agencies, employees of the regional development ment culture and fostering investment activities in institutions, independent experts, other specialists enRussian regions through shaping up a professional gaged in planning, preparation and implementation of environment that facilitates preparation and impledevelopment projects. 65 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The project participants are offered a unique opportunity to obtain up-to-date information on preparation and implementation of investment projects as well as practical recommendations of the relevant specialists. Vnesh­econom­bank’s borrowers are able to improve project quality and avoid typical errors in project documentation The project provides for various training formats tarof Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s key structural (investment) geted at a particular audience, with due regard for the units, the Bank’s partners and customers, representalevel of skills and the extent of the students’ involvetives of major consulting companies, college teachers ment in investing activities. The experts and lectures and practitioners. engaged in the project are managers and employees In 2012 the educational project included 15 events and offered 5 new educational formats. The project was attended by more than 1,060 participants against 810 in 2011 To improve the training process and the educational petences of lecturers and experts. More than 85% of project events, Vnesh­econom­bank regularly arrangrespondents, who are potential borrowers of Vnesh­ es questionnaire surveys to obtain feedback from the econom­bank, underscored that project participation students. The 2012 interview results showed that the positively impacted their decision to apply to Vnesh­ projects participants highly appreciated the quality econom­bank for funding. of the educational event organization and the comNumber of educational project events Number of educational project participants 2012 15 2012 1,067 2011 12 2011 810 2010 5 2010 349 BACK TO CONTENTS 66 Investment in Sustainability Educational Project Implementation Strategy Advanced training courses “Investments in Development Projects” devoted to the specific features of Russian and foreign development institutions’ activities, Basic training (in cooperation with basic principles and project financing eligibility criteria, project efficiency and risk universities) evaluation methods, typical errors in project preparation as well as Vnesh­econom­ bank’s key requirements to projects, investment project preparation, procurement, management and monitoring Events (workshops, conferences, business games, training, etc.) designed to inform regional authorities of the priority lines of Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities and launch Regional events an efficient dialogue aimed at initiation and implementation of priority regional development projects and development of practical skills of the investment project participants Educational events for students, postgraduates and young specialists engaged in industries prioritized by Vnesh­econom­bank. Vnesh­econom­bank’s involvement in the Russian and international educational youth forums such as the Seliger All-Russian Youth projects Youth Forum, International Youth Industrial Forum “Engineers of the Future”, etc. Arranging competitions of students’ and postgraduates’ investment ideas in cooperation with leading regional universities. Organization of the Youth Club under the auspices of Vnesh­econom­bank 2.7.2. Training Events for Representatives of Commercial Companies, Federal and Regional Executive Authorities The past year witnessed arrangement, with close en• seminars “VEB Group: Projects on the Southern gagement of Vnesh­econom­bank’s professionals, of a Federal District Development”, “Vnesh­econom­bank: number of educational projects particularly designed PPP Project Development in the North Western Fedfor representatives of commercial companies, federal eral District”, “VEB Group: Projects on the Far Eastand regional executive authorities. An advanced trainern Federal District Development”; ing course “Investment in Development Projects” was arranged on the basis of the Moscow City Management • thematical conference “VEB Group: Development University under the Government of Moscow and a Projects for the Krasnodar Territory and Adygeya number of regional events were staged. These included: Republic” and “Vnesh­ econom­ bank: Cooperation Options in Implementing Development Projects in • business game “How to Prepare and Manage EffecVolga Federal District”. tively an Investment Project: Successful Practices of Vnesh­econom­bank and Its Partners” in Kemerovo, Yekaterinburg and Pyatigorsk; 67 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.7.3. Raising Investment Management Qualifications among the Youth Vnesh­econom­bank seeks to raise qualifications of the winners awarded traineeships with Vnesh­ econom­ younger generation in financial and investment manbank. agement. The particular educational project is intended for developing Russia’s human resource potential Within the International Youth Industrial Forum “The and encouraging the scientific and research aspiraEngineers of the Future 2011”, Vnesh­econom­bank artions of the young. Vnesh­econom­bank actively enranged an educational service titled “How to Prepare gages in arranging the all-Russian and international and Effectively Manage an Investment Project: Suceducational events and closely networks with leading cessful Practices of Vnesh­econom­bank and Partners”. colleges and universities in Moscow and the regions The educational service was intended to raise awareincluding participation in competitions for best investness of the forum participants of Vnesh­econom­bank’s ment projects worked out by students and post-gradpriority business lines and the fundamentals of investuates. ment management. A competition for economists of major enterprises was organized; the winners were In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank for the third time particoffered an opportunity of traineeship with Vnesh­ ipated in the Seliger All-Russian Youth Forum. Within econom­bank’s investment units. the framework of the group “Innovations and Technical Creative Work”, the experts of Vnesh­econom­bank, In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank also announced the 1st SME Bank and VEB Innovations offered consultancy competition for students and postgraduates “The on preparation, procurement and delivery of investEconomic and Investment Potential of the Southern ment projects and on SME support and provided edFederal District” held in cooperation with the Rostov ucational training and lectures on how to best draw State Economic University. The authors of the 3 best up business plans for investment projects and venture works became the contest winners and were offered finance. A competition for the best innovative project an opportunity of traineeship with Vnesh­ econom­ for the participants was announced, with 3 contest bank. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank conducted 4 traineeship sessions for the participants of the 2011 educational youth forums and training events for 57 students of the leading Moscow colleges. During the year, Vnesh­econom­bank offered jobs to 7 former trainees and 1 specialist that underwent training with Vnesh­econom­bank in 2011 BACK TO CONTENTS 68 Investment in Sustainability Vnesh­econom­bank Youth Club In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank founded the Youth Club intended for students, postgraduates and young scientists from the leading Moscow economic colleges. The Club’s goal is to become a permanent discussion platform securing exchange of information, experience and new ideas related to problems of immediate concern for the social and economic development of the entire country and the regions. The Club is engaged in 2 areas of activities: initiating unconventional solutions and instruments to address urgent strategic and practical tasks within the framework of scientific and research work performed by specialized sections covering the primary lines of Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities and arrangement of educational events for the young. December 2012 witnessed the launch of the Club’s pilot section “Integrated Territorial Development”. A competition of scientific essays for those willing to join the section’s workshops was announced. 2.7.4. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Initiatives in Training of Financial Sector Professionals The VEB Group initiatives in training of financial secship with the Group members’ units. In 2012 BelVEB tor specialists are implemented in cooperation with trained 208 college students and 44 students of spethe relevant universities and other educational insticialized secondary schools of the Republic of Belarus. tutions of Russia, Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. BelVEB also arranged a competition for the students The initiatives include: Roseximbank’s support for the willing to have a pre-degree training with the Bank, Financial University under the Russian Government with 23 winners coming forward. Svyaz-Bank trained and a long-standing cooperation between Prominvest48 students. VEB Innovations accepted 2 young trainbank and the Kiev Banking Institute. ees. Globexbank also offers traineeship to undergraduate students. A standard practice of the Group members is to offer students and postgraduates opportunities of trainee69 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.8. Support for Smalland Medium-Sized Enterprises A primary objective of Vnesh­econom­bank in the field of SME support is increasing their contribution to quality growth of the Russian economy, securing structural diversification and facilitating a switchover to innovative path of economic development. Fostering SMEs implementing innovative, production modernization and energy efficiency projects is a strategic priority for Vnesh­econom­bank 2.8.1. Mechanism for SME Support Involving Vnesh­econom­bank and the Group Members Vnesh­econom­bank seeks to bolster SME support over of economy, developing and introducing new instruthe entire territory of the Russian Federation, encourments of SME support, attracting additional investage SMEs operating in the non-commercial sector ments including those of foreign investors. The VEB Group members have an important role to play in providing SMEs with the lending and leasing services as well as export support. SME Bank makes a special contribution to strengthening the SME financial sustainability. But actually, the SME Bank acts as Vnesh­econom­bank’s agent in delivering the state SME support agenda Vnesh­econom­bank and SME Bank closely coordinate The goal of the Agreement is to create a well-coorditheir efforts with other development institutions parnated mechanism enabling consistent support of SME ticipating in the multilateral Agreement on Interaction innovative projects, starting from R&D funding to asamong Development Institutions and Stakeholders in sisting companies in the launch of IPOs. Ensuring Continuous Financing of Innovative Projects throughout the Innovation Cycle. BACK TO CONTENTS 70 Investment in Sustainability In 2012 the implementation of the Agreement forespect of projects promoted to the following stages cused on carrying out the plan of facilitating access of the “innovative lift”. for innovation-oriented medium-sized enterprises to development institutions’ funding. The plan was apFormulation by development institutions of joint proproved by the Government of the Russian Federation. grams and legislative initiatives is also an important It provides for creating a central platform to ensure aspect of the Agreement implementation. These inproject information exchanges among the parties to clude the recent amendments to the Federal Law “On the Agreement. Obviously, that could facilitate conDevelopment of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises” solidation of information on projects supported by that envisages liberalization of requirements to innodevelopment institutions, help avoid overlapping asvative companies supported by development institusessments and, hence, accelerate decision-making in tions or foreign individuals. SME Support by VEB Group in 2012 As of 2012 year-end, the volume of funds allocated to SMEs amounted Acting as Vnesh­econom­bank’s to RUB 82.9 bn. SME projects in the non-commercial sector accounted SME Bank agent for the implementation for 66% of the SME loan portfolio; modernization and energy efficienof the SME support program cy projects — for 57.5% and innovative projects — for 4.8% Globexbank As of 2012 year-end, Globexbank’s SME loan portfolio amounted Implementation of their own to RUB 21,181 bn and Svyaz-Bank’s SME loan portfolio — SME lending programs RUB 12,592 bn Svyaz-Bank In 2012 VEB-Leasing was working to conclude agreements with Rendering retail leasing VEB-Leasing SME entities on leasing vehicles, special-purpose machinery and services to SMEs equipment Implementation of its own As of 2012 year-end, BelVEB SME loan portfolio amounted to BelVEB SME lending programs in RUB 14,245 bn the Republic of Belarus Insurance support for exports In 2012 EXIAR rendered insurance support to one SME entity and started EXIAR of SME products and services the development of special products for SMEs 71 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Post-Reporting Period Events In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank began creating a mechanism of SME guarantee-based support pursuant to the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation “On the Long-Term National Economic Policy” providing for a mechanism of issuing state guarantees under investment projects implemented in the Russian Federation intended primarily for SMEs operating in sectors unrelated to mining and mineral resources processing 2.8.2. Financing SMEs through SME Bank In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued the implemengram, SME Bank provides for SME financing through tation of the State Program of Financial Support for designated partner banks and infrastructural entities SMEs through its subsidiary SME Bank. Under the Pro(leasing, factoring and microfinance companies). During the entire period of implementing, the Program embraced 36 thousand SMEs under 54 thousand agreements and over 360 partner entities through which SME Bank supported SMEs. Since the Program launch, RUB 277.1 bn worth of funds have been extended to SMEs As of 2012 year end, the Program was implemented The Program is focused on supporting SMEs engaged in all the 83 constituent entities of the Russian Federin the industrial sector, innovation-oriented SMEs and ation including 144 out of 333 single-industry towns entrepreneurs in the regions characterized by a chaland comprised about 22 thousand SMEs and 256 lenging social and economic situation. To expand suppartner entities. port envisaged by the Program priorities, SME Bank offers loan products designed for SMEs engaged in the non-commercial sector. In 2012 the scope of financial support under the Program increased from 69% as of 2011 year end to 80.5% as of 2012 year end, with the share of innovative, modernization and energy efficiency projects having grown from 36% to 62.4% The year 2012 also witnessed the expansion of share of production-oriented projects posted 22.4%, non-commercial SME support, with the respective service sector projects — 31%, construction proshare in the SME loan portfolio increasing from 59% jects — 6.7%, agricultural projects — 5.9%. as of 2011 year end to 66% as of 2012 year end. The BACK TO CONTENTS 72 Investment in Sustainability As at 01.01.2013, according to information presented by SME Bank’s partner banks, SMEs funded under the Program created and maintained more than 430 thousand jobs, generated revenues of RUB 1.075 tn and paid RUB 30 bn in taxes SME Bank’s portfolio structure is considerably differamong regions where the market gives preference to ent from the market average in focusing on financing financing SMEs located in the Central Federal District, SMEs operating in the industrial sector and is charwhereas the share of loans extended to productive acterized by more uniform allocation of state support SMEs does not exceed 14.4%6. “SME — Regional Growth” Loan Product In 2012 SME Bank introduced a number of new loan products to encourage SME development in the regions characterized by a challenging economic situation as well as growth of productionand innovation-oriented SMEs. “SME — Regional Growth” is a product designed to support SME lending in single-industry towns and the regions with no or a minimum demand for loans, such as the North Caucasian Federal District, the Nenets Autonomous Area, the Republics of Kalmykia and Tyva, the Baikal Region and the Chukotka Autonomous Area. In July 2012 the product was modified to support SME registered in Krymsk, Gelendzhik and Novorossiysk damaged by the flood. A primary objective of the Program is to make longSME Bank intensively accumulates and analyses interm resources more available to SMEs. As of 2012 formation enabling it to better identify the SME needs year end, the share of loans extended for a term over with due regard for regional specifics. Based on the 3 years in SME Bank’s loan portfolio reached 56.2% accumulated experience, SME Bank endeavours to against 16% (market average). SME Bank maintained enhance the Program efficiency, simplify the system its weighted average interest rate on the loans at of selection and standardization of the project funding 12.6% p.a., well below the market one. According to terms and provide more targeted SME support. the “SME Lending in Russia” survey by Moody’s as at the beginning of 2012, the effective average interest rate on SME loans was 17% p.a. In 2012, to improve the implementation of the Program of Financial Support for SMEs, SME Bank developed the Strategy for the Period of 2013-2015 approved in June 2013 6 According to the survey “Small and Medium Business Lending in Russia: Major Banks Contemplate a Revenge” performed by Expert RA rating agency. 73 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Program Implementation Priorities Industry Breakdown of SME Loan Portfolio as of January 1, 2013 19.5% 31% 34% 4.8% 9% 57.5% 9.2% 5.9% 6.7% 22.4% Program implementation priorities (80.5%): Non-commercial sector (66%): Modernization and energy efficiency Service sector Social sector Production sector Production sector (other projects) Construction Innovations Agriculture Other (19.5%) Commercial sector (34%) Regional Breakdown of SME Loan Portfolio as of January 1, 2013 3.9% 4.7% 7% 32.4% Central Federal District Volga Federal District 8.1% Southern Federal District Siberian Federal District North Western Federal District 9.1% Urals Federal District Far Eastern Federal District North Caucasian Federal District 10.6% 24.2% BACK TO CONTENTS 74 Investment in Sustainability Reconstruction of heating facilities in Bakala, Satkinski District — a pilot project under the Integrated Program of the Housing Sector and Public Utilities Modernization and Improvement in the Chelyabinsk Region for the Period of 2011 to 2020 Borrower (SME) — Ural EnergoDevelopment LLC Total project value — RUB 311 mn SME Bank commitment — RUB 120 mn The project is aimed at upgrading the housing sector infrastructure in the Satkinski District. Under the project, 4 new energy-efficient hot-water gas boiler houses will be put into operation. The project is delivered adopting the PPP mechanism through which budgetary funds are allocated to connect the utility lines to the sites and overhaul the heat supply system. The project will facilitate the replacement of the worn-out utility infrastructure with a high accident rate and low efficiency, transition to the decentralized heat supply system, reduction of energy losses in the course of heat transmission. Upgrading of the heating facilities in Bakala will increase efficiency from 64% to 92% and provide for almost a two-fold energy saving reducing the cost of the services provided. 2.8.3. Development of International and Regional Cooperation for SME Support Vnesh­econom­bank places a strong emphasis on develIn 2012, to expand the range of SME funding instruopment of cooperation with international and foreign ments in Russia, Vnesh­econom­bank and KfW, a Gerfinancial institutions with a view to increase investman banking group, signed a Memorandum of Underments in the SME segment providing additional supstanding to establish the International SME Finance port to innovative and export-oriented SMEs. Since Fund. The Fund will render SME support ranging Vnesh­econom­bank receives no budgetary appropriafrom RUB 150 mn to 1 bn both through earmarked tions for funding SMEs, the resources of International financing of Russian banks and direct investments in financial institutions are actually the sole alternative dynamic small and medium-sized enterprises in the source of raising long-term capital at the acceptable non-commercial sector. cost of borrowing. 75 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The survey performed to explore the Fund’s feasibility confirmed a considerable demand of Russian SMEs for long-term investments. For instance, the estimated demand in the manufacturing industry is as high as RUB 1 tn Overall, the amount of Vnesh­ econom­bank’s investLeningrad, Kaliningrad, Pskov and Novgorod Regions. ment in the Fund will reach USD 150 mn, i.e. the same The Memorandum specifies financial support to SMEs amount as that of KfW. In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank is engaged in innovative and upgrading projects as the expected to invest USD 75 mn and will increase its main cooperation priority. commitment to USD 150 mn within 4 years. To accomplish the Memorandum goals, KfW extended Another important move towards attracting resourcto Vnesh­econom­bank a long-term loan of USD 110 es for SME support was made in 2012 when Vnesh­ mn for funding SME projects. The projects meeting econom­ bank, KfW and the Permanent Secretariat the Memorandum requirements will be funded under of the Council of the Baltic Sea States signed a Tria loan agreement between Vnesh­econom­bank and lateral Memorandum of Understanding aimed at imSME Bank. In 2013 the total amount of the loan faciliplementation of a pilot financial initiative in Russia’s ty is to be extended to SMEs implementing innovative regions adjacent to the Baltic Sea: Saint Petersburg, and modernization projects. Vnesh­econom­bank was among the initiators to establish the Montreal Group incorporating development banks to ensure exchange of ideas and experience related to SME support. The Montreal Group was registered in September 2012. The establishment of an on-line storage of information on the SME support experience became one of the first steps to secure arrangements between the member development institutions Within the framework of collaboration with the OECD, quired financing and the SME support infrastructure Vnesh­ econom­ bank contributes to the annual SME in countries regarding the SME development as an funding bulletin, the most significant source of ininvestment priority. formation disclosing SMEs options to access the reBACK TO CONTENTS 76 Investment in Sustainability Post-Reporting Period Events In June 2013 during the Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum, the VEB Group and the Government of Leningrad Region signed the Joint Action Plan which envisages SME Support within 2013–2015. The Plan is intended to create an integrated SME development system in Leningrad Region The Program of Developing SME Business Skills In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) continued the implementation of the EMPRETEC program aimed at nurturing small business leaders. The EMPRETEC program involves certified teachers and is based on the Harvard University methodology. During the year 5 seminars were held for the SME segment representatives and 2 training sessions for the future program coaches. The seminar participants were offered an opportunity to open new businesses under the guidance of experienced advisers. 2.8.4. SME Support by VEB Group Members Apart from SME Bank, other VEB Group members inaz-Bank launched a new program “State Support to cluding subsidiary banks operating in Russia, the ReSMEs to Secure Innovation, Modernization and Enerpublic of Belarus and Ukraine and a specialized comgy Efficiency within the Framework of Funding Providpany VEB-Leasing seek to render support for SMEs. ed by SME Bank”. The Group continuously updates the SME product line focusing on the support of SMEs engaged in innovaGLOBEXBANK. Globexbank extends SME loans tive, modernization and energy efficiency activities. from the resources allocated under the Program of Financial Support for SMEs developed by SME-Bank. Svyaz-Bank. Svyaz-Bank provides integrated bankIn 2012 Globexbank and SME Bank signed an agreeing services to SMEs including various lending proment for extension by SME Bank to Globexbank of an grams ranging from 1.5 to 7 years. In 2012 Svyadditional credit facility under the FIM (funding of in77 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT novations and modernization) program. The targeted ing USD 100 thousand. In 2012 BelVEB scrutinized FIM loan product developed under the program is in13 projects. tended for financing SME projects relating to innovations, industrial modernization and energy efficiency In December 2012 BelVEB, SME Bank and the Busienhancement. The loans are extended for a term of ness Union of Entrepreneurs and Employers named up to 5 years. after Prof. M.S. Kunyavski signed the Agreement on Cooperation in SME Support. BelVEB. The Bank’s Credit Policy approved in January 2012 provides for expanded lending operations VEB-Leasing. VEB-Leasing priorities include acwith efficiently operating SMEs, strengthening of the tive promotion of the SME-oriented retail business. Bank’s position in this particular sector of the credit VEB-Leasing offers SMEs a wide range of affordamarket through building a stable customer base, exble products characterized by a high speed of decipanding the range and improving the quality of cussion-making and simplified documentation execution. tomer lending services. As of the year end, the company maintained one of the largest regional leasing networks among Russian In 2012 BelVEB expanded the geographic scope of leasing companies that included 102 branches. the Loan Agreement for SME lending with the EBRD securing the EBRD loans availability to such regions In 2012 the company approved the new Development as Vitebsk, Orsha, Baranovichi and Mogilev. Strategy of VEB-Leasing LLC including retail leasing services to SMEs within 2012–2017. The Strategy Under the Agreement with the EBRD, BelVEB embedprovides for the expansion of the regional network, ded the procedures of compliance with environmental the development of new SME-oriented leasing prodand social requirements in lending operations raising ucts and a considerable increase in the amount of the EBRD funding. That envisages an additional exSME support. The Strategy implementation should pert evaluation of SME loans in the amounts exceedstrengthen the company’s leadership position in the SME retail leasing segment. BACK TO CONTENTS 78 Investment in Sustainability SME Support by VEB Group Subsidiaries Industry Breakdown of SME Support (Rub bn) by VEB Group Subsidiaries as of January 1, 2013 21,181 Globexbank 15,695 6.8% 12,592 Service sector 7.8% Svyaz-Bank 9.82 27.6% 14,245 2.3% BelVEB 4,773 Construction 4.3% 1% as of January 1, 2013 Transport and communications 16.4% as of January 1, 2012 18.8% Industry 8.7% 16.5% Regional Breakdown of SME Support 3.4% by VEB Group Subsidiaries as Agriculture 0.7% of January 1, 2013 1% Central Federal 28% 49.4% District 43.6% Trade 20.5% Volga Federal 9.2% 18.7% District 33.3% 19.3% Siberian Federal 12.4% Other 58% District 11.7% 18.8% Southern Federal 3.9% District 5.6% North Western 17.3% Federal District 5.6% Urals Federal 6% Districtг 0.2% Far Eastern 11.9% Federal District North Caucasian Federal District 11.3% Svyaz-Bank Globexbank BelVEB 79 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.9. Attracting Foreign Investment, Human Resources and Technologies into Russian Economy Vnesh­econom­bank’s dedicated efforts to develop international cooperation fully respond to Russia’s aspirations to increase the openness of the country’s economy, win global markets’ confidence and actively engage in the international financial markets. Vnesh­ econom­bank seeks to accomplish a wide range of tasks related to attracting foreign investment into the Russian economy thereby enabling both implementation in Russia of major projects and introducing state-of-the-art foreign technologies, and nurturing the culture of good business conduct 2.9.1. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Interaction with International Financial Institutions Being a development bank, Vnesh­ econom­bank cointerests of the Russian financial sector abroad and operates with the leading international and national contributes to developing international standards of financial institutions focused on strengthening ecothe financial industry. The Bank is committed to pronomic cooperation to meet the most acute challenges moting experience exchange in innovative banking of modern society. Vnesh­econom­bank represents the technologies and products. Obviously, attraction into Russia of foreign investment to deliver joint projects in such priority areas as innovations, environmental protection, energy efficiency, etc. may well be viewed as an important outcome of Vnesh­econom­bank’s networking with foreign partners BACK TO CONTENTS 80 Investment in Sustainability In December 2012 the Supervisory Board of Vnesh­ Further cooperation between Vnesh­econom­bank and econom­ bank approved the establishment in Hong foreign financial institutions provides for raising in Kong of VEB Asia Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary in2013 loans in the amount of at least USD 1.5 bn to tended for raising loans to finance large-scale profund major investment projects in Russia. Apart from jects implemented in the Russian Federation and the it, in 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank plans to sign with the Asia-Pacific countries, primarily in China. Given that World Bank an agreement on providing consulting Hong Kong is a major international financial centre, services with a view to devising and putting into place the company also aims to contribute to establishment an efficient system to manage innovative activities of an international financial centre in Moscow. This at the regional level. When launched, the system will particular task was expressly formulated by the Presifacilitate monitoring of innovative activities and disdent of the Russian Federation. seminating of the respective information in Russian regions, thus enabling both planning and implementVnesh­econom­bank maintains continuous interaction ing regional innovative strategies and programs. with its foreign partners under educational programs to explore best international practices. In 2012 Vnesh­ A number of agreements with IFC including those on econom­bank’s professionals attended the workshops developing mechanisms that could rationalize generheld to exchange experience with the CDB, Developation of a pipeline of Vnesh­econom­bank’s energy effiment Bank of Kazakhstan and BNDES. cient projects underpinned by the international expertise and best practices are being drafted for signing. International associations 2012 Interaction results and initiatives • Agreement on Cooperation in Servicing and Enhancing the Real Economy and Interbank Consortium of the Shanghai Agreement on Cooperation in Environmental Protection and Energy Saving were Cooperation Organization (SCO) — an associsigned ation of authorized state banks and lending institutions of the SCO member states (Russia, China, • The SCO IBC Council adopted a declaration on sustainable development thus conKazakhstan, Kirghizia, Tadjikistan, Uzbekistan) firming the member banks’ preparedness to boost the social and economic growth of the SCO member states and promote sustainability principles • Master Agreement on extending loans in national currencies and Master AgreeInterbank cooperation among the BRICS ment on L/Cs confirmation within the framework of the BRICS Interbank Cooperamember countries — an association of finantion Mechanism were signed cial development and export support institutions of the BRICS member countries (Russia, Brazil, • Agreement on cooperation and co-financing of sustainability projects within the China, India, South Africa) framework of the BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism was drafted and is scheduled for signing in 2013 81 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT International associations 2012 Interaction results and initiatives • The European Investment Bank (EIB) committed to extend financing for: Partnership for Modernization Initiative – SME support projects and other projects meeting the EIB requirements includof Russia and the European Union — the ing through Vnesh­econom­bank’s subsidiary banks (in the amount of up to Euro initiative for developing mutually beneficial 200 mn); cooperation between Russia and EU within the framework of which Vnesh­econom­bank, EBRD – major infrastructural projects supported by Vnesh­econom­bank (a loan facility of and EIB signed a Memorandum of Understandup to Euro 150 mn); ing – Vnesh­econom­bank’s contribution to the International SME Financce Fund established in cooperation with KfW (a loan facility of up to USD 150 mn) • Vnesh­econom­bank, KfW and the Permanent Secretariat of the Council of the Pilot financial initiative intended for supBaltic Sea States signed a Memorandum of Understanding. To implement the port and development of SMEs, PPP-based initiative, 2 loan agreements were signed for the total amount of USD 110 mn to environmental protection and innovative finance PPP projects and innovation-oriented SMEs and in the amount of USD 65 projects in the North Western Region of the mn to finance a project on environment-friendly treatment of mixed solid waste Russian Federation (Saint Petersburg) Joint investment programs of IBRD and Vnesh­econom­bank — joint investment • Vnesh­econom­bank, the IBRD, the Russian Venture Company and the Fund for programs of IBRD and Vnesh­econom­bank to fiInfrastructural and Educational Programs signed a 4-party Memorandum of nance projects aimed at removal of infrastructurUnderstanding confirming the parties’ intention to cooperate on the IBRD project al constraints, enhancement of energy efficiency “Creation of the Russian National Innovative Observatory” and resource conservation International Development Finance Club • A Declaration on the basic principles of IDFC support to sustainability was adopted (IDFC) — an association of the national and aiming to attract private capital for delivery of projects in such fields as renewable regional development banks from 19 countries energy, innovations, infrastructure development and environmental pollution Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO) — a financial institution established by • Vnesh­econom­bank and NEFCO signed a Memorandum of Understanding expressDenmark, Iceland, Norway, Finland and Sweden ing their intention to cooperate in such fields as energy efficiency, environmental to finance investment projects in Russia, Estonia, protection, waste treatment, housing and public utilities, “clean” technologies Latvia, Lithuania, Republic of Belarus and Ukraine Coordinating Committee for Economic Cooperation with Sub-Saharan Africa • Acting as the Afrocom Chair, Vnesh­econom­bank launched a special Internet portal (Afrocom) — a public organization for shaping (www.afrocom.ru) devoted to the Russian-African economic relations enabling the business ties with Sub-Saharan Africa uniting online disclosure of business information, commercial and export offers over 90 Russian state and business entities BACK TO CONTENTS 82 Investment in Sustainability 2.9.2. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Participation in Creating International Financial Centre in Moscow In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued active engageThe expertise required to address strategic issues rement in the project to establish the Moscow Internalating to integration of the Russian financial market tional Financial Centre (MIFC) designed to become the in the international economic system is provided by core of the Russian financial system. MIFC is called the International Advisory Committee on Establishing to network investors and those experiencing strong and Developing an International Financial Centre in demand for capital. Admittedly, MIFC will both facilthe Russian Federation. Vladimir Dmitriev, Chairman itate Russia’s integration in the global economy and of Vnesh­econom­bank, is a member of the respective enhance sustainability of the global financial system committee. due to improved manageability and predictability. The MIFC establishment is also aided by the RusThe MIFC’s development plans requiring concerted sian-British Liaison Group formed in 2011. In 2012 efforts of the executive bodies and agencies and the Vnesh­econom­bank held the 3rd meeting of the Group. financial market professionals are being prepared by Special attention was devoted to discussing the most the Task Force for Establishment of an Internationpromising workstreams that could focus on developal Financial Centre in Moscow, the Russian Federaing long-term financial solutions and advanced intion. The Task Force includes 7 workstreams. Sergey formation and communications technologies in the Vasiliev, Deputy Chairman of Vnesh­econom­bank — financial industry. Member of the Management Board, chairs one of the workstreams. 2.9.3. Activities of Russian Direct Investment Fund The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) estabsets are managed by the RDIF Management Company, lished in 2011 on the initiative and with direct asVnesheconombank’s 100% subsidiary. sistance of the President and the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation has an important role to play Investment activities of RDIF are aimed at enhancing in attracting major foreign investments. The Fund’s asproduction and management efficiency of the Rus83 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT sian companies that are economy leaders. MandatoThe RDIF priority is to ensure a maximum return on ry co-financing by qualified co-investors and RDIF investments (ROI). To attract qualified co-investors, (the minimum ratio of co-investment is 1:1) serves as RDIF draws on the internationally accepted efficiency the key mechanism and a driver enabling it to attract criteria of direct investment fund. These, apart from considerable amounts of FDI into the Russian econROI, include risk minimization and milestone deals omy. enhancing investor reputation and securing growth of investment in the respective sectors. The RDIF activities receive expert support of the International Expert Council comprising top-ranking experts and executives of major sovereign investment funds. The 1st meeting of the Expert Council summing up the Fund’s activity results was held in June 2012 A meaningful outcome of the RDIF’s activities was In 2012 the RDIF took an active part in a number of the establishment in 2012 of the Russian-Chinese significant international forums including the InterInvestment Fund in cooperation with the China State national Economic Forum in Davos and Saint PetersInvestment Corporation (CIC). Over 70% of the Fund’s burg International Economic Forum. During the 2012 assets are expected to be invested in the Russian and Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum RDIF CIS companies and projects, with the remaining asannounced the launch of an automatic co-investment sets being channeled to Chinese companies with Rusmechanism. Kuwait Investment Authority (KIA) besian equity investment. came its first member. This means that the KIA will participate in all the transactions co-financed by RDIF. BACK TO CONTENTS 84 Investment in Sustainability 2.10. Pension Savings Investment Vnesh­econom­bank acting as the STMC strictly complies with the applicable Russian law and manages pension savings in the best interests of the insured persons invariably seeking to ensure the safety of the pension funds under management. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank was also delegated the function of a state management company to handle the disbursement reserve intended for establishing a reliable system of financing disbursements out of the pension savings 2.10.1. Acting as State Trust Management Company In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued to act as the • the portfolio of pension savings of the insured perSTMC to manage the pension savings of the citizens. sons entitled to term payments being the source of Also, by the Directive of the Russian Government financing disbursements out of the accumulative Vnesh­econom­bank was designated as the state compart of labour pensions payable in equal portions pany to manage the disbursement reserve resources. over a certain period of at least 10 years. The mechanism of forming the disbursement reserve The 2012 results showed a persisting favourable trend was specified by Federal Law “On Procedure of Fundfor the pension system reflecting the reduction of the ing Disbursements from Pension Savings” No. 360-FZ STMC’s share in the amount of the total pension savdated 30 November 2011. The disbursement fund is ings as compared to that transferred to the non-govformed by the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation ernmental pension funds and asset management out of the pension savings of the insured persons enticompanies. In 2012, according to the Investfunds intled to the accumulative part of labour pensions. formation and analytical resource, the STMC’s share in the total pension savings decreased from 75.9% Acting in the above capacity, Vnesh­ econom­ bank to 70.1% indicating that the increasing number of makes up 2 new investment portfolios: the insured persons gives preference to non-governmental pension funds fostering the development of a • the portfolio of the disbursement reserve being the non-governmental retirement system. source of financing disbursements out of the accumulative part of labour pensions payable perpetually every month; 85 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Investment Portfolio of Vnesh­econom­bank Acting as State Trust Management Company Extended investment portfolio Acting as the STMC to manage the pension savings Investment portfolio of government securities Investment portfolio of the disbursement reserve Performing the STMC functions in respect of disbursement reserve management Investment portfolio of pension savings of insured persons entitled to term pension payments As at 01.01.2013, the total amount of pension savings under the STMC’s trust management reached RUB 1,643,644 mn, with the amount of the disbursement reserve under the STMC’s trust management being RUB 350 mn Change in the STMC share in pension savings Change in the STMC share in pension savings against 2011 for 2002-2012 December 1,643 2012 70.05% 2012 70% September 1,541 2011 75.94% 2012 70.7% 2010 80.89% June 1,448 2012 71.1% 2009 83.93% March 1,358 2012 71.5% 2008 88.48% December 1,334 2007 90.30% 2011 75.9% 1,196 2006 93.25% September 2011 76.5% 2005 95.88% June 1,055 2011 76.3% 2004 95.83% March 944 2003 96.65% 2011 77.6% 2002 96.58% Amount, RUB bn under the STMC trust management the Share of the STMC BACK TO CONTENTS 86 Investment in Sustainability 2.10.2. Eligible Investment Instruments The STMC’s portfolios are invested according to the pany may invest is similar to that of the extended inInvestment Declaration approved by the Government vestment portfolio. of the Russian Federation. Since 2009 Vnesh­econom­ bank has been entitled to make up 2 investment portIn pursuit of the 2012 STMC’s objectives, the penfolios: an extended portfolio and an investment portsion savings of the extended portfolio were investfolio of government securities. ed primarily in new investment instruments such as high-quality corporate bonds, bonds issued by the Significant broadening of the list of instruments eliRussian constituent entities, mortgage-backed bonds, gible for the pension savings investments within the bonds of the international financial organizations extended portfolio enhances the efficiency of the (IFOs) and deposits with the Russian commercial pension savings investments. The list of instruments banks (RCB). in which the disbursement reserve management comThe amount of the extended portfolio’s pension savings invested in the new investment instruments including the RCB deposits increased from RUB 329.05 bn as of 2011 year end to RUB 583.54 bn as of 2012 year end. The share of the new instruments in terms of the portfolio market value increased from 24.76% to 35.67%. As of 2012 year end, government securities accounted for 57.48% of the extended portfolio STMC Investments in New Investment Instruments Including RCB Deposits (RUB bn) 31.12.2012 583.54 31.12.2011 329.05 31.12.2010 184.9 87 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.10.3. Return on Pension Savings Investments Vnesh­econom­bank maintains an intensive cooperAmendments to Certain Legal Acts of the Russian ation with the relevant ministries and agencies to Federation on Funding Disbursements from Pension increase return on the pension savings investments Savings” No. 243-FZ dated 3 December 2012 and and ensure increased inflow in real economy. ProDecree of the Government of the Russian Federation posal prepared by Vnesh­econom­bank to improve the “On Amendments to the Investment Declaration of process of pension savings investment through the the Extended Investment Portfolio of the State Trust mitigation of existing restrictions were taken into acManagement Company” No. 1347 adopted on 20 Decount by the Russian Government in Federal Law “On cember 2012. In December 2012 amendments were made to the Investment Declaration of the STMC’s extended portfolio according to which the maximum share of corporate bonds of a single issue was increased to 60% of the issue’s outstanding bonds and all restrictions were removed on the acquisition of Russian issuers’ bonds assigned long-term credit ratings of the ruble-denominated or foreign currencydenominated bonds at a level at least comparable with the relevant rating of the Russian Federation As of 2012 year end, return on invested pension 2.47% and 2.66%, the low return resulting from the savings of the extended portfolio posted 9.21% and fact that the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation that of the government securities portfolio — 8.47% placed the 2 portfolios’ money in trust with Vnesh­ exceeding the rate of the 2012 inflation recorded at econom­bank in QIV 2012 and it was invested only in 6.6% according to the Rosstat data. December 2012, which means an investment period shorter than 1 month. Return on the disbursement reserve portfolio and the term payments portfolio was equal respectively to Return on Invested Pension Savings 9.21% 2012 8.47% 5.47% 2011 5.90% Extended investment portfolio Investment portfolio of government securities BACK TO CONTENTS 88 Investment in Sustainability Vnesh­econom­bank’s Investments in Affordable Housing Construction and Housing Mortgages in 2010-2013 In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued to implement the program of investment in affordable housing construction and housing mortgages scheduled for the period of 2010–2013. The Program is intended to boost mortgage lending and make housing more affordable to the entire population. The Program provides for investing RUB 250 bn including RUB 160 bn of pension savings of the STMC extended portfolio, RUB 50 bn of Vnesh­econom­bank’s own funds and RUB 40 bn allocated by the National Wealth Fund. Over the period of the Program implementation, the weighted average interest rates under the housing mortgage decreased from 13.1% p.a. as of 2010 year end to 12.3% p.a. as of 2012 year end. During the peak periods the interest rates were as low as 11.8% p.a. Under the Program, RUB 60 bn of the STMC’s extended portfolio’s pension savings will be invested in corporate bonds of the Agency for Housing Mortgage Lending (AHML) guaranteed by the Russian Federation. Another RUB 150 bn including RUB 100 bn of the pension savings and RUB 50 bn of Vnesh­ econom­bank’s own funds will be invested in mortgage bonds issued by commercial banks and specialized mortgage entities. VEB Capital acts as the program arranger and underwriter responsible for underwriting the mortgage bond issues of the Program participants in compliance with the approved Program parameters. As of 2012 year end, Vnesh­econom­bank invested RUB 28.68 bn of the pension savings in the guaranteed bonds of the AHML and acquired mortgage-backed bonds issued by VTB 24 and AHML totally worth RUB 19.16 bn. Actually, RUB 12.77 bn of pension savings and RUB 6.39 bn of Vnesh­econom­bank’s own funds were used for the acquisition. In 2012 the Program involved 11 commercial banks and specialized mortgage entities whose applications for mortgage-backed bonds worth RUB 150 bn were approved by Vnesh­econom­bank. As of 2012 year end, the Program participants extended over 84 thousand loans totaling RUB 132.62 bn against about 33 thousand loans totaling RUB 50.84 bn extended in 2011. That is actually a double increase. 89 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.11. Charity Vnesh­econom­bank regards charity as an integral part of its corporate social responsibilities reflecting the Bank’s aspiration and desire to be actively involved in public life. The highest priority is given to education, science, culture, arts, healthcare and environmental protection projects. In 2012 the VEB Group allocated RUB 1,284 bn for charity thereby considerably exceeding the 2011 allocations of RUB 927 mn 2.11.1. Charitable Activities of Vnesh­econom­bank The charitable activities enable Vnesh­ econom­ bank gy and Hematology named after N.N. Blokhin and the to increase the scale and scope of contribution to First Children’s Oncological Hospice for 15 years. The addressing most acute social problems and develop Bank also continuously allocates funds to the Acadimportant public institutions. In 2012 the primary emy of Young Soloists of the Mariinsky Theatre and lines and mechanisms of Vnesh­econom­bank’s charity the Ballet School named after Vaganova, the Pyotr Fopolicies practically remained unchanged. Just as bemenko Studio Theater in Moscow, the Pushkin State fore, the bulk of the Bank’s funds was used to support Museum of Fine Arts, the Moscow Kremlin Museums, science, education, arts and culture. Concurrently, the Polytechnical Museum, etc. Vnesh­econom­bank continued to support healthcare and socially disadvantaged groups of population, Within the framework of developing the Russian sports of records, the Russian Orthodox Church and sports of records, Vnesh­econom­bank has been renenvironmental protection projects. dering regular support to the All-Russian Volleyball Federation, the All-Russian Cycling Federation, the Most of the Bank’s charitable projects are implementRugby Players Union of Russia and assists the Rused on a long-term basis. Vnesh­econom­bank has been sian 2018 Organizing Committee in the preparation supporting the Research Institute of Children Oncolofor hosting the 2018 Football World Cup in Russia. BACK TO CONTENTS 90 Investment in Sustainability In 2012 the Bank allocated funds for the construcMother of God in Kaluzhskaya Square in Moscow, the tion and rehabilitation of more than 10 cathedrals, Orthodox Monastery of St. George in Getschendorf churches and monasteries and supported further con(Germany). struction of the Patriarch Center for Spiritual Growth of Children and Youth at the St. Daniel Monastery of Since 2010 the Bank has been introducing new enviMoscow. The new beneficiaries of Vnesh­econom­bank ronment-friendly charitable projects. In 2012 Vnesh­ include the Church of Tikhvin Icon of the Mother of econom­ bank rendered assistance to the BelovezhGod in the village of Putilovo, Kirovski District, Lenskaya Pushcha and Pripyatski National Parks. ingrad Region and the Chapel of Kazan Icon of the Priority Charitable Activities of Vnesh­econom­bank in 2012 (% of allocations) 2% 9% 12% Science, education, arts and culture Healthcare and social support for individuals, child aid Support for the Russian Orthodox Church 47% Sport of records Environmental protection projects 30% 91 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Beneficiaries of Vnesh­econom­bank Vnesh­econom­bank annually adds new beneficiaries to the beneficiary list. In 2012 the following entities were included in Vnesh­econom­bank’s charity program: The Russian Federal Research and Clinical Centre of Special Medical Aid and Medical Technology, a major medical centre in Moscow comprising a multifield hospital, advisory and diagnostic centre, research institutes and postgraduate education chairs. The hospital for 810 patients has surgical, therapeutic, resuscitation and intensive care units. The International Fund of Technologies and Investments, a non-profit organization founded in 2000 to support science, culture, education and innovations in Russia. A priority line of the Fund’s activities is professional management of scientific and technical projects aimed at developing innovative products and technologies. The Fund has implemented over 450 projects involving more than 100 thousand Russian scientists, culture and education workers. The Pripyatski National Park, a unique reserve of more than 188 thousand hectares in the south of the Republic of Belarus protecting 38 species of plants and 74 animal species included in the Red Book of the Republic of Belarus. The tourist camp located in the Park hosts tourists from every corner of the globe. 2.11.2. Charity within VEB Group Charity has become the Group-wide trend. In 2012 The largest charitable allocations among the Group all the 6 subsidiary banks of the Group implemented members were made in 2012 by GLOBEXBANK. charitable projects in healthcare and social support Top-priority areas of charitable activities of GLOBEXfor individuals, science, education, arts and culture. BANK encompassed social programs, arts and culA number of the Group’s subsidiary banks render supture and support for the Russian Orthodox Church. port to sport of records and the Russian Orthodox In 2012 GLOBEXBANK became the patron of the Church. Russian Booker Literary Prize, one of the most reputed and prestigious Russian literary awards. GLOBEXIn contrast to 2011 when the specialized entities of BANK also assisted the Novosibirsk Philarmonic Sothe VEB Group did not engage in charitable activities, ciety in giving charitable concerts and the Fund for in 2012 VEB-Leasing joined the Group’s charitable Young Talents of Siberia supporting young musicians, initiatives to render assistance to the Rostov nursing artists, ballet dancers. home for the elderly and disabled. BACK TO CONTENTS 92 Investment in Sustainability Priority Charitable Activities of VEB Group in 2012 (% of allocations) 16.0% 1.9% Healthcare and social support for individuals, child aid 6.8% Science, education, arts and culture 46.1% Sport of records Support for the Russian Orthodox Church Other 29.2% The area of BelVEB charitable activities included sport exhibition “Devotion to the Common Good”, the interof records, schools and cultural projects. In 2012 Belnational scientific conference “Young Researchers of VEB rendered assistance to organizing the 3rd InterChekhov”, and the recital competition in the State Litnational Christmas Opera Forum in Minsk. Charitable erary Memorial Museum of A.P. Chekhov “Melikhovo”. contributions were also made to the Representative Office of the National Olympic Committee of the ReCharitable activities of Prominvestbank were aimed at public of Belarus. assisting organizations supporting the disabled and veterans of the Great Patriotic War (Vnesh­econom­ In 2012 Roseximbank supported the All-Russian Combank’s retirees). Prominvestbank beneficiaries also petition for Bachelors Graduating from Higher Educaincluded the Theatre Initiative Charitable Foundation tion Institutions “The Magic of Master’s Degree Studnamed after K.P. Khokhlov. ies. Let’s Combine Science and Practice!” organized by the Finance University under the Government of the Svyaz-Bank’s and SME Bank’s charitable efforts were Russian Federation and the “Young Russian Culture focused on support for healthcare, education, arts and in Italy” festival. Additionally, Roseximbank rendered culture. Svyaz-Bank also supported sport of records assistance to the International Chekhov Charitable and rendered social support to individuals and SME Foundation in arranging Christmas festivities, the Bank provided support for children. 93 BACK TO CONTENTS 3. Responsible Business Practices 3.1. Anti-Corruption Procedures The activities of Vnesh­econom­bank aimed at preventing corruption and observing professional ethics for the purpose of protecting customers, counterparties and business partners form an integral part of the Bank’s corporate culture helping to build confidence between Vnesh­econom­bank and the financial market members and reducing reputational risks for Vnesh­econom­bank 3.1.1. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing To prevent the penetration of criminal capital in the terrorist financing, prompt identification of customer Russian economy and the possibility of terrorism, operations and transactions subject to compulsory Vnesh­econom­bank maintains an anti-money laundercontrol as well as unusual transactions. The proceing and counter terrorist financing (AML/CTF) system. dures include the identification of customers, customer representatives and beneficiaries, the process of The Bank’s AML/CTF system is based on requirements obtaining, processing and storing the required docuof Federal Law No. 115-FZ dated 7 August 2001 “On mentation and information, arrangements for cooperaAnti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Fition with appropriate authorities, the timing and forms nancing”, recommendations of the CBR, international of employee AML/CTF training and the assessment of financial institutions and practical experience of forrisk of money laundering and terrorist financing. eign and leading Russian financial institutions. Vnesh­econom­bank’s strategic AML/CTF objective inThe framework of the AML/CTF system is shaped up cludes improvement of the AML/CTF system with due by the Internal Control Rules on AML/CTF binding on consideration for the existing requirements of the apall employees of Vnesh­econom­bank that are engaged plicable law, the principal functions, areas of activities in banking and other transactions (or monitoring and customer base of Vnesh­econom­bank as well as them) to minimize the risk of money laundering and disseminating and implementing the common basic terrorist financing through Vnesh­econom­bank. operating principles of the AML/CTF system in subsidiary banks. The AML/CTF system incorporates a number of procedures aimed at preventing money laundering and BACK TO CONTENTS 94 Responsible Business Practices In 2012 due to changes in the applicable law, the Insory control over the operations of non-commercial ternal Control Rules and other VEB’s internal regulaentities and identification of customers belonging to tory documents were amended to introduce compula particular category. In 2012 the AML/CTF training events were attended by 588 Vnesh­econom­bank employees including 98 employees trained remotely. 66 employees attended the briefing on AML/CTF aspects of securities market transactions. Additionally Vnesh­econom­bank’s 624 employees underwent AML/CTF skills testing In 2012 within the framework of AML/CTF cooperaatives, Vnesh­econom­bank exchanged experience and tion with foreign financial institutions including the information on the actions performed for the purpose meetings with Citibank and Barclays Bank representof AML/CTF. AML/CTF and Anti-Corruption Activities within Subsidiaries The VEB Group’s entities perform AML/CTF activities in accordance with the requirements of the applicable Russian law and the Bank of Russia. The only exceptions are VEB Engineering, VEB Innovations Fund, North Caucasus Development Corporation and the Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund that are not covered by Federal Law No. 115-FZ “On Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing” dated 7 August 2001. BelVEB and Prominvestbank carry out AML/CTF activities in accordance with the applicable law of their countries. 2012 did not witness any court proceedings within the VEB Group falling within the definitions contained in the Federal Law “On Combating Corruption” or relating to competition prevention. In 2012 the AML/CTF internal control rules were developed and implemented by the FCPF, EXIAR and VEB Capital, VEB-Leasing and Roseximbank approved the new version of the rules. In 2012 employee training in anti-corruption principles and procedures including AML/CTF was conducted in 10 entities of the Group including VEB Capital, VEB-Leasing, GLOBEXBANK, SME Bank, Roseximbank, Svyaz-Bank, FCPF, EXIAR, BelVEB, Prominvestbank. During the year over 9 thousand employees were trained, almost twice as many as during the previous period when about 4.4 thousand employees were trained in AML/CTF. 95 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.1.2. Combating Improper Use of Insider Information and Market Manipulation In 2012, to protect insider information, Vnesh­econom­ • approval of the restated Insider Information List of bank continued to implement the System of CombatVnesh­econom­bank; ing Improper Use of Insider Information and Market Manipulation according to Federal Law “On Combating • elaboration of the list of persons to be included in Improper Use of Insider Information and Market Mathe Insider List and the reasons for their inclusion in nipulation and on Amendment to Individual Legislative and deletion from the list. Acts of the Russian Federation” No. 224-FZ dated 27 June 2010 and the regulations adopted thereunder. In 2012, for the purpose of exchanging experience and specifying common approaches of the VEB Group In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank installed software enato application of laws on combating improper use of bling computer-based maintenance of the insider list insider information and market manipulation, Vnesh­ and other processes performed to meet the applicable econom­bank organized a number of training events legal requirements. Vnesh­econom­bank was also enand the respective round table inviting managers and gaged in the improvement of its internal regulations officers of the Group members. resulting in: Combating Improper Use of Insider Information and Market Manipulation and Securing Confidentiality of Borrower and Partner Information in VEB Group Entities The VEB Group entities perform activities aimed at combating improper use of insider information and market manipulation pursuant to Federal Law No. 224-FZ dated 27 July 2010 applicable to all the Russian banks of the Group, VEB Capital, VEB-Leasing and RDIF. In 2012 GLOBEXBANK worked out the insider information access procedure, insider information confidentiality rules and control over compliance with legal regulations of the Russian Federation on combating improper use of insider information. Svyaz-Bank made amendments to the list of insider information. In 2012, to prevent fraud, improper use of insider information and provide for the observation of corporate ethics, Prominvestbank established a compliance unit. In 2012 no infringement on customer privacy, loss of any data on customers, partners and other individuals and legal entities that consumed financial services was witnessed in the Group with the exception of an action for moral damage brought against Svyaz-Bank by a customer whose personal data were disclosed to a collecting agency. BACK TO CONTENTS 96 Responsible Business Practices 3.1.3. Procurement Management Vnesh­econom­bank’s procurement activities are gov• targeted and efficient spending of funds on the proerned by the Regulations for the Procurement of curement of goods, works and services (when necGoods, Works and Services for State Corporation essary subject to the procured products’ life cycle) “Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs and reduction of Vnesh­econom­bank’s costs; (Vnesh­econom­bank)” developed pursuant to Federal Law of the Russian Federation No. 223-FZ dated 18 • non-restricted access to the procurement proceJuly 2011, “On Procurement of Goods, Works and Serdure through establishing equal requirements to the vices by Individual Types of Corporate Entities”. procurement procedure participants. Carrying out its procurement activities, Vnesh­econom­ Vnesh­econom­ bank annually publishes on the offibank is guided by the following principles: cial website its procurement plan for the following calendar year and carries out procurement activities • openness of procurement information; through bidding (auction or non-auction sales), without bidding (in the form of competitive negotiations, • equality, openness, non-discrimination and avoidrequest for quotations, competitive selection) as well ance of unjustified limitation of competition in reas purchasing from a single supplier that is selected spect of procurement procedure participants; based on the procurement procedure implemented by the procurement commission consisting of heads of Vnesh­econom­bank’s departments. Organization of Procurement Operations by VEB Group Members Federal Law “On Procurement of Goods, Works and Services by Individual Types of Corporate Entities” No. 223-FZ dated 18 July 2011 applies to all the members of the VEB Group except VEB Innovations, BelVEB and Prominvestbank acting in accordance with the applicable national laws. In 2012 the Group members worked to bring their internal regulatory documents governing the procurement procedures in conformity with requirements of Federal Law No. 223-FZ. 97 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.1.4. Securing Confidentiality of Borrower and Partner Information Vnesh­ econom­ bank undertakes to secure confidenDuring the period under review, Vnesh­econom­bank tiality of borrower and partner information. In 2012 also upgraded the integrated system of protecting in accordance with requirements of the Information card holder data as required by the Payments Card InSecurity Policy, the Bank started upgrading the Interdustry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The measnet-system “Information Security Contour” preventing ures undertaken enabled Vnesh­econom­bank to obconfidential information leakages through e-mail. tain the PCI DSS version 2.0 compliance certificate by Visa and MasterCard. Post-Reporting Period Events In 2013, with a view to preventing corruption and in accordance with the applicable law of the Russian Federation, Vnesh­econom­bank implemented a system providing for, inter alia, collection and processing of information on income, expenses, property and material liabilities of individuals applying for employment by Vnesh­econom­bank, Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees filling the available vacancies, their spouses and minor children and took other measures aimed at revealing and preventing corruption BACK TO CONTENTS 98 Responsible Business Practices 3.2. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Cooperation with Stakeholders Vnesh­econom­bank acts in the interests of a wide range of stakeholders and makes every effort to anticipate their expectations when making and implementing management decisions. The process of cooperation with stakeholders is designed to build long-term credible relations eventually shaping up a favourable external and internal environment for implementation of strategic objectives faced by Vnesh­econom­bank 3.2.1. Top-Priority Stakeholders of Vnesh­econom­bank Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities impact a wide range of A special role among Vnesh­econom­bank’s stakeholdexternal and internal stakeholders, their economic siters belongs to the Management Board and heads of uation, quality of life and business performance. The VEB’s departments. The stakeholder group exerts a stakeholders primarily impacted by Vnesh­ econom­ significant influence on Vnesh­econom­bank’s business bank are the Bank’s employees and borrowers and the results and at the same time is seriously impacted by VEB Group entities. the Bank’s decisions and actions. At the same time, Vnesh­econom­bank is impacted by Top-priority stakeholders of Vnesh­econom­bank also certain stakeholders, in the first place the Supervisory include regional public authorities, Russian and forBoard, federal authorities and investors. eign financial institutions, international business organizations, VEB’s suppliers and contractors and the Bank’s trade union. 99 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vnesh­econom­bank’s Stakeholder Diagram • Vnesh­econom­bank Strong impact • Government of the Russian Supervisory Board • Vnesh­econom­bank Federation Management Board • Ministries and other federal • President of the Russian executive authorities • Heads of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Federation independent divisions • Investors • Regional authorities of the Stakeholder impact on Vnesh­econom­bank • State Duma of the Russian Russian Federation Federation • Russian and foreign financial • Vnesh­econom­bank middle Medium impact • Council of Federation institutions managers and executives of the Russian Federation • Organizations representing the • VEB Group entities • Rating agencies global business community • Vnesh­econom­bank’s • Audit Chamber of the Russian • Vnesh­econom­bank’s suppliers borrowers Federation and contractors • Office of Attorney General • Vnesh­econom­bank’s Trade Union • Local communities in regions of Vnesh­econom­bank project implementation • Public organizations Minor impact • Single-industry towns’ citizens • Environmental organizations • Members of Vnesh­econom­bank’s • Individuals whose pension Retiree Council • Students and young specialists savings are in trust management • Mass media by the STMC • Higher educational and research institutions Minor impact Medium impact Strong impact Vnesh­econom­bank impact on stakeholders Vnesh­econom­bank’s Stakeholder Diagram is based on replies given by Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees in questionnaires used to prepare this Report BACK TO CONTENTS 100 Responsible Business Practices 3.2.2. Stakeholder Interaction Mechanisms In cooperation with stakeholders, Vnesh­econom­bank A major channel of permanent communications with uses various instruments designed both to raise pubstakeholders is Vnesh­econom­bank’s call centre prolic awareness of Vnesh­econom­bank’s activities and to cessing various inquiries concerning the Bank’s activcarry on a dialogue with various groups of top-priority ities7. stakeholders. Vnesh­econom­bank, on a regular basis, participates In compliance with the communication strategy, in the work of committees, commissions, workshops, Vnesh­econom­bank carries out a set of measures deforums and conferences organized by public authorsigned to inform public both in Russia and abroad of ities. The expert potential of Vnesh­econom­bank is inany significant events relating to Vnesh­econom­bank’s tensively used to formulate public policies including activities. To this end, Vnesh­econom­bank maintains expert evaluation of draft laws and formulating the regular interaction with mass media by issuing offidevelopment strategies of industries and regions in cial information releases, holding press conferences areas that relate to Vnesh­econom­bank’s priority busiand briefings, arranging interviews of Vnesh­econom­ ness lines. bank’s top executives and experts in Russian and foreign mass media. Vnesh­ econom­bank makes every effort to maintain cooperation with Russian and foreign development The Bank’s official website is an important channel institutions including through the conclusion of bilatof informing stakeholders of Vnesh­econom­bank’s aceral and multilateral cooperation agreements and artivities. The site regularly publishes news about the ranges events designed to exchange experience and Bank’s lending and investment operations, results of to discuss the efficiency of economic development inpension savings investing and the current information volving Russian and foreign financial institutions. on procurement procedures and available vacancies. Post-Reporting Period Events The system of interaction between Vnesh­econom­bank and stakeholders will be further developed through the introduction in the VEB of the Policies of Interaction with Stakeholders, its development to be launched in 2013. The Policy will be based on recommendations of the international standard AA1000SES of AccountAbility Institute. Arrangement of the process of engagement with stakeholders within the framework of preparation by Vnesheconombank of non-financial sustainability reports should become a major component of the Policies 7 Vnesh­econom­bank’s call centre telephone number is (495) 721 18 63. 101 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.3. Client-Centered Practices Establishing close interaction with stakeholders and partners is an important part of the VEB Group business practices. The Group entities on a regular basis conduct partner and customer satisfaction surveys and accept their applications, which allows to improve the consumer effect and pricing characteristics of the banking products offered by the Group entities to individuals and legal entities and the quality of customer service 3.3.1 Assessment of Customer and Partner Satisfaction The customer and partner satisfaction surveys are In 2012, to raise the level of customer and partner regularly conducted by all subsidiary banks of the satisfaction, SME Bank approved a new code of corGroup providing retail services (GLOBEXBANK, Svyporate ethics including the ethical principles of cusaz-Bank, BelVEB, Prominvestbank) and SME Bank. In tomer and partner relations, Svyaz-Bank introduced 2012 the Far East and Baikal Region Development the standards of telephone service quality, BelVEB Fund also began implementing the customer and partspecified the mechanism of individuals’ and legal enner satisfaction survey procedures. tities’ complaint and request acceptance and Prominvestbank adopted the procedure of retail customer In 2012 the VEB Group members focused on the request processing. Additionally, in 2012 Prominvestcustomer and partner interaction through telephone bank completed putting in place a full-fledged CRM lines, corporate website, face-to-face meetings and system to manage customer relations. interviews. BACK TO CONTENTS 102 Responsible Business Practices Assessment of Customer and Partner Satisfaction within VEB Group Entities “Mystery Corporate Face-to-face Questionnaire Hot lines Interviewing consumer” Focus groups website meetings survey method GLOBEXV V V BANK SME Bank V V V V V V Svyaz-Bank V V V V BelVEB V V V V V V ProminvestV bank The Far East and Baikal V Region Development Fund 3.3.2. Customer and Partner Request Acceptance within VEB Group The mechanisms of customer and partners request Customer requests are recorded by all subsidiary acceptance are used by all the subsidiary banks of the banks of the VEB Group providing retail services. In Group engaged in retail operations, i.e. VEB-Leasing, 2012 GLOBEXBANK received 198 customer requests Roseximbank and the North Caucasus Development including 133 complaints, Svyaz-Bank — 699,584 Corporation. In 2012 SME Bank and VEB Innovations customer requests including 3,665 complaints. Belsrarted the implementation of customer and partVEB received 374 requests from legal entities and ners request acceptance mechanisms. The customer individuals, with 109 ones resulting from customer and partner requests are most frequently accepted dissatisfaction. Prominvestbank received 48,963 custhrough electronic and ordinary mail, telephone and tomer requests of which service requests accounted through the corporate website. for 84%, requests relating to products and rates — for 15.7% and customer comments for 0.2%. 103 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer and Partner Request Acceptance within VEB Group Corporate E-mail Ordinary mail Telephone Comment book website VEB-Leasing V V V V VEB Innovations V V V GLOBEXBANK V V V V SME Bank V V V V Roseximbank V V V V Svyaz-Bank V V V V North Caucasus DevelopV V V V V ment Corporation BelVEB V V V V V Prominvestbank V V V V In order to raise the level of customer satisfaction customers of the terms of lease agreements and inbased on the requests received, BelVEB and Svysurance rules and also included repeated requests for az-Bank took steps to correct ATM errors. Furtherbook-keeping records and requests for modification more, BelVEB decided to extend the working hours of contracts. for individual customers in 2 branches and trained employees providing services to individuals and legal Most of the customer and partner requests received in entities in sales technologies and skills. 2012 by Roseximbank, North Caucasus Development Corporation and VEB Innovations related to clarificaIn 2012 among the Group members that are not ention of financing terms and conditions, and the opgaged in retail operations, most of the customer and portunity to access state guarantees through Rosexpartner requests were received by VEB-Leasing. They imbank. Remarkably, the above entities received no resulted primarily from incorrect interpretation by customer and partner complaints. BACK TO CONTENTS 104 Responsible Business Practices 3.3.3. Individual Service Practices of Subsidiary Banks In the implementation of customer-oriented practices, The Group subsidiary banks also offer their customers the Group subsidiary banks rendering retail services socially important banking products such as mortgage focus on remote service channels and on improving loans for disadvantaged people and education loans. their offices’ accessibility to low-mobile population. The VEB Group’s subsidiary banks engaged in retail operations generally seek to use the services of the call centres and Internet banking as primary remote service channels. Additionally, BelVEB offers online advice GLOBEXBANK. In 2012 GLOBEXBANK continued about Children” product at 28.5% p.a. against 30% implementing the mortgage lending program for annual interest rate on other loans. During the term servicemen entitled to participate in accumulative of the program, loans worth 1,446 Belorussian Rubles mortgage system. During the period under review, were extended to 228 BelVEB customers. GLOBEXBANK extended 715 mortgage loans totaling RUB 1,485 bn. Prominvestbank. Prominvestbank continued to issue loans for education in the Kiev Banking College Svyaz-Bank. In 2012 Svyaz-Bank extended 4,684 at 3% p.a. During the year 39 students received 55 mortgage loans worth RUB 9 bn under the Program tranches totaling RUB 744.3 thousand. of Mortgage Lending for Servicemen. As of 2012 year end the loans of the type accounted for 35.9% of In 2012 for the purpose of easing the loan burden on the Bank’s portfolio of individual loans. In 2012 Svyindividual borrowers, Prominvestbank extended the az-Bank also launched a new product — “Consumer period of decreased interest rates on mortgage loans Credit for Servicemen” of up to RUB 200 thousand extended to Prominvestbank’s employees and indiwhich may be used, inter alia, for improving the resviduals for whom Prominvestbank’s employees act as idential property purchased under the Program of guarantors. Additionally, Prominvestbank decided to Mortgage Lending for Servicemen. Also, in 2012 Svywrite off, in whole or in part, the debt of 59 borrowaz-Bank offered pensioners such socially important ers due to the uncertainty of the Ecosorb apartment products as “13th Pension” and “Pension Reserve”. house construction. Prominvestbank also adopted individual decisions including prolongation of the deadBelVEB. In 2012 the Bank offered individuals with deline for loan repayment for 4 customers, restructuring pendent children special credit products aimed at easloans for 35 customers, partial writing-off the debt of ing the loan burden, first of all the so-called “Thinking 24 customers who were in a financial predicament. 105 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VEB Group Offices Offering Improved Accessibility for Low-Mobile Persons 2011 2012 Share in total number Share in total number Number of offices Number of offices of offices of offices GLOBEXBANK 15 50% 22 54.5% Svyaz-Bank 23 11.4% 21 12.3% BelVEB NA NA 8 40% BACK TO CONTENTS 106 4. Corporate Life 4.1. HR Policies Human capital is an asset of paramount importance for accomplishing the strategic objectives faced by Vnesh­econom­bank nationwide. Realizing the significance of the employees’ contribution to the Bank’s success, Vnesh­econom­bank endeavours to pay them decent compensation and provide them with an enhanced social safety net, ensure occupational health and safety and facilitate their professional and personal development 4.1.1. Responsible Labour Practices The HR policies of Vnesh­econom­bank are based on bank applies advanced approaches and best internathe Development Strategy for the Period from 2011 tional practices. to 2015 and are aimed at enhancing the flexibility of the personnel management system and ensurIn 2012 the Bank’s priorities in improving the personing its rapid and effective adaptation to changes in nel management system included putting in place a the laws and the labor market situation. To improve complete version of a new remuneration and incentive the personnel management system, Vnesh­econom­ system, as well as a system of new employees adaptation. Vnesh­econom­bank’s HR policies are based on strict compliance with the Constitution of the Russian Federation, requirements of the Labor Code and other regulations of the Russian Federation. Vnesh­econom­bank adheres to the principle of equal opportunities and guarantees non-discrimination with regard to gender, religion, political views, nationality, age, etc. In 2012 no breaches of labor laws by Vnesh­econom­bank were recorded 107 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The fulfillment of terms and conditions of the employVnesh­ econom­ bank. As at 01.01.2013, 915 Vnesh­ ment contracts and the Bank’s internal regulatory econom­bank’s employees were members of the trade documents regulating such issues as occupational union. In November 2012 the trade union and Vnesh­ health and safety, non-governmental pension beneeconom­bank executed a new collective bargaining fits for employees is controlled by the trade union of agreement for a term of 3 years. In 2012 107 persons joined and 4 persons withdrew from the Bank’s trade union, the share of employees — members of the trade union growing from 39.4% as of 2011 year end to 45.3% as of 2012 year end In 2012, to exchange experience in efficient HR mancient Banking” and a round table on career manageagement, Vnesh­econom­bank arranged a number of ment for the representatives of HR units of the VEB events including the 7th International Interbank ConGroup and other major Russian banks. ference “Human Capital: Efficient HR Polices — Effi4.1.2. Vnesh­econom­bank’s Staff Characteristics As at 01.01.2013, the actual headcount of Vnesh­ The composition of Vnesh­econom­bank’s staff did not econom­ bank was 2,022 employees including 23 witness any significant changes in 2012, with a slight part-time employees (1.14% of the actual headcount) prevalence of women employees (52.5%) and persons and 57 persons employed by Vnesh­ econom­ bank’s from 31 to 50 years old (55.9%). representative offices in Russia and abroad (2.82% of the actual headcount). The number of employees In 2012 the rate of personnel turnover8 in Vnesh­ increased by 159 persons against 2011. The Bank’s econom­bank reduced to 4.57% against 5.59% during staff mostly consists of specialists with higher educathe previous period. In 2012 85 employees quit the tion (83% of the total headcount). job with Vnesh­econom­bank (12 persons less than during the previous year). 8 The rate of personnel turnover is calculated based on the number of job quitting employees, those discharged for other reasons, retired or dying during the period of employment. BACK TO CONTENTS 108 Corporate Life Vnesh­econom­bank Personnel Breakdown Vnesh­econom­bank Personnel Breakdown by Age (% of Actual Headcount) by Gender (% of Actual Headcount) 19.7% 24.4% 47.5% 52.5% 55.9% Personnel aged 30 years and under Female Personnel aged between 31 to 50 Male Personnel aged 51 years or above Share of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Employees Share of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Employees who Left the Bank in 2012 to Total Number who Left the Bank in 2012 to Total Number of Employees (by Age Category) of Employees (by Gender) 6.5% 5.1% 2.7% 3.4% 5.9% Male (49) Female (36) Personnel aged 30 years and under (26) Personnel aged between 31 to 50 (30) Personnel aged 51 years or above (29) 109 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VEB Group Staff Characteristics As at 01.01.2013, the actual headcount of the VEB Group made 16,263 employees. The staff composition and headcount did not significantly change versus the previous period. VEB Group Personnel Breakdown by Age VEB Group Personnel Breakdown by Gender (% of Actual Headcount) 16.1% 32.5% 35.6% 64.4% 51.4% Personnel aged 30 years and under Female Personnel aged between 31 to 50 Male Personnel aged 51 years or above Share of VEB Group Employees with Higher Education VEB Engineering 91.7% VEB Capital 85% VEB-Leasing 88.7% GLOBEXBANK 72.8% SME Bank 88.5% Roseximbank 83.3% Svyaz-Bank 73.6% FCPF 100% EXIAR 99% Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund 91% North Caucasus 94.6% Development Corporation BelVEB 83.4% Prominvestbank 98% BACK TO CONTENTS 110 Corporate Life Personnel Turnover Rate within VEB Group 32.4% VEB Engineering 38.8% 11.3% VEB Capital 38,6% 29.4% VEB-Leasing 26.1% 22.5% GLOBEXBANK 16.3% 16.6% SME Bank 11.7% 8.4% Roseximbank 5.9% 34.9% Svyaz-Bank 29% 72.7% FCPF 43.3% EXIAR 23.6% North Caucasus 15.3% Development Corporation 17.9% Far East and Baikal 16.7% Region Development Fund 17.3% BelVEB 12.9% 50.5% Prominvestbank 42.9% 2012 2011 4.1.3. Recruiting New Employees and Securing Their Adaptation The internal regulations for Vnesh­econom­bank staff The timely and proper introduction of new employees recruiting provide for equal opportunities for all apto competencies required for their business position is plicants and the unbiased assessment of their skills. best achieved through the employee adaptation system Recruiting is primarily based on professional criteria providing for the assignment to each new employee of without any preference for the local population. In an experienced mentor occupying a similar position 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank performed a full cycle of aswho bears responsibility for the new employees’ proper sessing procedures in relation to 235 applicants for adaptation. In 2012 the adaptation course was conavailable vacancies of which 203 were employed. ducted for 153 new employees of Vnesh­econom­bank. 111 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1.4. Employee Remuneration and Incentive System Developing an efficient remuneration system is a priorsalaries depends on the importance of their tasks and ity of Vnesh­econom­bank’s HR policies. In 2012 Vnesh­ the market average for the position whereas bonuseconom­bank continued the implementation of a new es depend on the accomplishment of individual goals employee remuneration and incentive system intended and achieving of the corporate KPIs. to raise the employee motivation to achieve the Bank’s strategic objectives through quality and conscientious In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank performed the first annufulfillment of their professional functions. al personnel assessment to determine the employee individual performance in 2011 subject to personal The remuneration of Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees goals and the development of professional and peris based on transparent standard mechanisms prosonal competencies. The assessment results were takviding for differentiated incentives. The basic part of en as a basis for paying out individual annual bonuses. Vnesh­econom­bank makes every effort to recruit the best specialists offering them competitive remuneration. In 2012 the size of Vnesh­econom­bank employees’ remuneration conformed to the industry average In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank was involved in a number Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees start with a compenof large-scale labour market surveys organized by masation equal to at least the minimum wages paid in jor consulting companies. The resulting remuneration Moscow. In 2012 it showed RUB 14,400, 1.23 times and compensation data was used for analyzing comhigher than the minimum applicable from July 1, 2012 patibility of the compensation level in Vnesh­econom­ according to the agreement between the Government bank with the industry average. of Moscow, Moscow trade unions and employer associations. Non-material incentives are an important element of Vnesh­econom­bank’s personnel motivation system. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank awarded various badges and marks of distinctions to 290 employees for conscientious and dedicated service for the Bank (14.3% of the total headcount) Pursuant to Federal Law “On Bank for Development” Information on the income, property and property No. 82-FZ dated 17 May 2007, remuneration and/ obligations of the Chairman, members of the Manageor compensation payable to members of the Bank’s ment Board and Deputy Chairmen of Vnesh­econom­ Supervisory Board is subject to approval by the Govbank, their spouses and minor children is published ernment of the Russian Federation. Since members of on an annual basis on the official website of Vnesh­ the Supervisory Board except the Chairman of Vnesh­ econom­bank within the scope provided for by the apeconom­bank are civil servants, no resolution on their plicable Russian law. remuneration in 2012 was adopted. BACK TO CONTENTS 112 Corporate Life Approaches to Personnel Management in the VEB Group Entities During the period under review, the most significant changes in the personnel management system were recorded in BelVEB and Prominvestbank. They resulted from the implementation by BelVEB of the HR Policies for the Period of 2012–2016 and the regulations for the employee assessment as well as for the implementation by Prominvestbank of the Performance Management Program and a computer-based SAP HR personnel management system. A new version of the Compensation Regulations was also approved by Svyaz-Bank. EXIAR made a committed effort to develop and put in place the key business processes of personnel management. The Agency approved the Provisions regulating EXIAR’s Personnel Remuneration and Motivation, Personnel Assessment and Personnel Training, Program of EXIAR Personnel Training and Development in 2013-2014. Also, the Agency defined the system of corporate values and worked out a model of corporate competencies. The VEB Group members continuously implement the best practices of HR management including the employee performance and employee satisfaction assessment. In 2012 the employee performance assessment procedures were performed by SME Bank, the North Caucasus Development Corporation, EXIAR, BelVEB and Prominvestbank. The most integrated approach that included a comprehensive personnel assessment was applied by EXIAR, with the application of the 360 degree principle. The employee satisfaction assessment was performed in 2012 by VEB Capital, SME Bank, Svyaz-Bank and BelVEB, the principal assessment procedure applied being topical interviewing. Additionally, SME Bank and Svyaz-Bank conducted comprehensive interviewing to assess employee satisfaction. Based on the obtained results and with a view to raising the team spirit, Svyaz-Bank approved the launch of the project on constructing a swimming-pool for employees. In 2012 a number of labour disputes were recorded within the VEB Group, mostly in Prominvestbank owing to staff reduction and the unsettled matter of extra payments for the residence in the Ukrainian highlands. All the 43 individual claims filed by Prominvestbank employees are pending in court. Individual claims for reinstating in office, remunerating for forced non-attendance and moral damage were filed in Svyaz-Bank (3 disputes, claims disallowed), BelVEB (2 claims, 1 disallowed and 1 satisfied), VEB-Leasing (1 claim partially satisfied) and GLOBEXBANK (1 claim disallowed). 113 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1.5. Qualification Enhancement Training For the purpose of maintaining high professional skills nel training providing for both developing new skills and employee motivation, Vnesh­econom­bank impleand accumulating knowledge and ensuring high proments an integrated multi-module program of personfessional competitive advantages in the labour market. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank’s training events involved 1,184 employees (59% of total staff) — a significant increase on the previous period (826 employees — 44% of total staff). The average number of training hours per employee in 2012 was 33.46 hours compared to 34.3 hours in 2011 The 2012 personnel training was organized along the • foreign languages and information technologies; following lines: • occupational safety; • anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing; • management, finance and investments. • combating improper use of insider information; In 2012/2013 academic year 303 employees of Vnesh­ econom­bank attended the foreign language • accounting and International Financial Reporting courses. Moreover, 4 employees were engaged in studStandards (IFRS); ying for MBAs, 20 employees were obtaining higher educations. Average Number of Training Hours per Number of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Employees Employee of Vnesh­econom­bank in 2012 Trained between 2010 and 2012 (by Employee Category) Executives 39.7 2012 1,184 Specialists 34.33 2011 826 Other employees 0.23 2010 736 (technicians) BACK TO CONTENTS 114 Corporate Life Personnel Training within VEB Group Entities Average Number of Training Hours per Employee of VEB Group (by Employee Category) 8 VEB Capital 54 62.1 VEB-Leasing 17.5 VEB Innovations 3.5 9.2 GLOBEXBANK 4 49,14 SME Bank 15.68 8 35.5 Roseximbank 17.8 20.1 Svyaz-Bank 3.9 4.5 FCPF 3.3 29.4 EXIAR 26.2 North Caucasus 7.8 Development Corporation 1.8 16.6 BelVEB Executives 5.2 33.7 Specialists Prominvestbank 27.3 Other employees (technicians) The VEB Group entities devote much attention to personnel training. They give preference to various forms of professional development and enhancement. Additionally VEB-Leasing, SME Bank, Roseximbank, BelVEB and Prominvestbank conduct on a regular basis training programs in foreign languages, computer skills and enhancing employee competencies. In 2012 foreign language courses were attended by more than 170 employees, computer skills courses by more than 1,200 employees and over 2,500 employees were engaged in enhancing employee competencies. Apart from that, 1 employee of SvyazBank was studying for MBA. In 2012 VEB-Leasing developed new training programs and introduced the “Development Academy” portal9. The SAP E-Learning web training program was also launched by Prominvestbank. 9 The average number of training hours of VEB-Leasing does not include the E-Learning hours of training through the “Development Academy” portal. 115 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1.6. Occupational and Fire Safety To prevent occupational injuries and diseases, Vnesh­ ees; 48 employees were engaged in the “Minimum Fire econom­bank on a continuous basis undertakes a set Safety Requirements” seminar. of measures to secure the protection of occupational health and safety. In 2012 37 employees of Vnesh­ To secure fire safety, in 2012 an on-site emergency execonom­bank were tested in respect of occupational ercise was conducted on Vnesh­econom­bank’s premissafety requirements. The mandatory occupational es to check personnel and emergency unit actions in safety briefing was conducted for 203 new employcase of a fire and the efficiency of the fire protection systems, devices and equipment. In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank did not record any occupational accidents. Neither supervisory bodies nor the management of Vnesh­econom­bank received any complaints from employees concerning such issues as working conditions, labor protection and fire safety BACK TO CONTENTS 116 Corporate Life Occupational Health and Safety Protection within VEB Group In 2012 most of the VEB Group members conducted occupational safety training for their employees including introductory and planned briefings, seminars and web-seminars which involved more than 7 thousand employees of the Group. About 350 employees were tested for the knowledge of occupational safety requirements. Additionally, during the period under review the occupational certification of about 1,230 workplaces was performed by VEB Engineering, VEB-Leasing, Globexbank, SME Bank and BelVEB. Absenteeism Rate within VEB Group 2012 witnessed major changes in the occupational health and safety management system of SME Bank which adopted VEB Engineering 2.9 a number of documents including the VEB Capital 2.6 Mandatory Occupational Safety Briefing Program and the Provision regulating VEB-Leasing 1.5 Occupational Safety Arrangement in VEB Innovations 0 SME Bank. Moreover, SME Bank conductGLOBEXBANK 4 ed 2 personnel emergency evacuation exercises. SME Bank 4.9 Roseximbank 7.9 In 2012 the VEB Group recorded 2 accidents in Prominvestbank, one of Svyaz-Bank 4.8 them resulting from a road accident and FCPF 2.1 the other from an employee fall from RDIF 0 the stairs in the bank’s office in Gorlovka. All the people hurt in the accidents reEXIAR 2 covered. Following the accidents, ProminNorth Caucasus vestbank conducted extra briefings, extra 0.4 Development Corporation Far East and Baikal Region training in transport occupational safety Development Fund 3.1 and made the slippery stairs safer through BelVEB 4.5 grooving. Prominvestbank 6.9 117 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1.7. Social Policies Personnel care is a long-standing priority of Vnesh­ tion. The integrated VHI program also includes addieconom­bank’s social policies. The benefits and guartional options such as “antenatal care” and “obstetric antees provided by the Bank to its employees include aid”. Also Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees may at their voluntary health insurance (VHI) programs, non-govexpense insure their relatives under the corporate ernmental pension benefits, sanatorium-resort therVHI contract at reduced rates. apy and recreation arrangement for employees and their families, employee health insurance during busiAs of 2012 year end, the Bank’s VHI programs covness and personal trips abroad, accident insurance as ered 2,328 people (including 307 retired employees — well as personal property and motorcar insurance. The members of the Bank’s Council of Retirees and 158 social benefits are provided to full-time employees. employees’ children aged from 0 to 3). During the year, antenatal care was provided to 37 employees and obThe Bank’s VHI programs include all kinds of medical stetric aid to 25 employees. Individual VHI contracts care such as outpatient care, dental care, home care, at reduced rates were concluded with 243 employee emergency care, urgent and scheduled hospitalizarelatives. Post-Reporting Period Events In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank increased the VHI limit per employee up to RUB 30 thousand exceeding that of 2012 by RUB 5 thousand Under the program “Office Doctor” Vnesh­ econom­ To reduce the disease rate and promote a healthy lifebank’s employees are provided with first aid in the onstyle, Vnesh­econom­bank entered into a contract with site ambulance room. In autumn and winter the Bank’s a major fitness club chain in Moscow, under which employees are vaccinated against flu. in 2012 the Bank’s employees and their families obtained 50 club cards at reduced rates. In 2012 to provide the staff with high-quality healthy meals, Vnesh­econom­bank opened 2 lunch halls serving about 800 persons a day. An integral element of Vnesh­econom­bank’s social policies is supporting employees on a three-year child-care leave and working women with children under three by paying them monthly benefits which were increased in 2012 BACK TO CONTENTS 118 Corporate Life In 2012 the Bank’s employees and their families In 2012, for the purpose of further expansion of the were also offered an opportunity to spend their social benefits package, Vnesh­ econom­ bank develvacations at RAZVITIE LLC recreation centre in the oped a new recreation and rehabilitation program Astrakhan Region. Vnesh­econom­bank pays 100% of with a limit of RUB 5 thousand a day per employee. their costs and 80% of their relatives’ costs. In 2012 The Program also covers Vnesh­econom­bank’s retirthe centre was visited by 134 persons. Additionally, ees. The limit for members of the employees’ families in 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank paid for 12 vouchers for amounts to 4 thousand a day. The annual recreation its employees and their families stay in sanatoriums and rehabilitation may last from 14 to 18 days. of the Office of the Mayor of Moscow. The absenteeism rate slightly increased in 2012 to 3.6 (against 3.1 in 2011). In 2012 the number of sickness absence days was 9,188 days (versus 7,069 days in 2011) In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank entered into an accident The retirement plan is implemented by Vnesh­econom­ insurance contract covering 40 employees performbank under the agreement for non-governmental ing cash transactions and employees engaged in the pension benefits with the Non-Governmental Pension Bank’s representative offices in the Russian FederaFund Podderzhka. Under the program, Vnesh­econom­ tion. Additionally, Vnesh­econom­bank purchased 722 bank makes monthly contributions to personal retirepolicies of cost insurance during trips beyond permament accounts opened for the employees with the nent residence and 233 motorcar insurance policies length of service of at least 1 year. The size of the (soft-terms) for its employees. contribution depends on the employees’ positions and grades. As of 2012 year end, the program covered 1,697 employees of Vnesh­econom­bank. Benefits Provided to Employees of VEB Group The main types of benefits provided by the VEB Group members to their employees in 2012 included VHI and material aid. During the period under review, the VHI program covered over 8 thousand employees. Material aid was rendered depending upon family circumstances, to celebrate anniversaries and holidays, to employees with children, retirees, etc., with the most comprehensive package offered by BelVEB and Prominvestbank. 119 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Benefits provided to full-time employees of VEB Group RecreaMother Accident RetireMaterial tion and VHI and child insurment Sports aid rehabiliwelfare ance plan tation VEB Engineering V V VEB Capital V V VEB-Leasing V V V V V VEB Innovations V V GLOBEXBANK V V SME Bank V V V Roseximbank V V V Svyaz-Bank V V V V V RDIF V FCPF V V V V EXIAR V V V North Caucasus Development V Corporation BelVEB V V V V V V V Prominvestbank V V V V V BACK TO CONTENTS 120 Corporate Life 4.1.8. Council of Vnesh­econom­bank Retirees Vnesh­ econom­ bank renders support to retirees — paid annual non-governmental retirement benefits members of the Council of Retirees of Vnesh­econom­ under the joint program of Vnesh­econom­bank and the bank — who retire after reaching a certain age or due Non-Governmental Pension Fund Vnesheconomfond to disability (groups I and II) after at least 10 years and are also entitled to additional benefits and guarof work with the Bank. Vnesh­econom­bank retirees are antees including insurance under the VHI program. As at 01.01.2013, the Non-Governmental Pension Fund Vnesheconomfond paid retirement benefits to 364 Vnesh­econom­bank retirees, their average size making RUB 9,120 In 2012 the Provisions regulating benefits to the Traditionally, Vnesh­econom­bank organizes for its retirmembers of the Council of Retirees were amended ees corporate events devoted to the Great Patriotic War to increase the annual one-off payments, expand the Victory Day and the New Year. In 2012 during these list of recreation and rehabilitation benefits under the events, 15 members of the Council of Retirees were VHI program and provide for the retirees’ recreation awarded an honourable title Exemplary Employee of at RAZVITIE LLC recreation centre. Vnesh­econom­bank. The size of the non-governmental retirement benefits was increased by RUB 5 thousand. 4.1.9. Corporate Culture For years, Vnesh­econom­bank has been maintaining tion to shaping up in the VEB Group common corpolong-standing traditions based on mutual respect rate values and strengthening interaction among perand mutual aid that contribute to the successful and sonnel of the Group entities. fruitful activities. Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees are united by the feeling of pride for the achievements sigIn September 2012 the sports festival “Partners of the nificantly contributing to the country’s development. 21st Century” was held for Vnesh­econom­bank employees and members of their families involving about 4 An integral part of the Bank’s corporate culture are thousand people. An important event in the Group’s major sporting and cultural events involving personcorporate life was the New Year party devoted also to nel of Vnesh­econom­bank and other Group entities. the 5th anniversary of the Bank’s operation as a naJoint leisure activities make an additional contributional development institution. 121 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1.10. Corporate Volunteering Volunteering is an important element of the Bank’s 2012 witnessed a considerable intensification of volcorporate culture. Involvement in volunteering enaunteering in Vnesh­econom­bank manifesting itself in bles Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees to demonstrate the increased number of organized events and the extheir active positions helping those in a predicament. pansion of the scope of volunteering. In 2012 Vnesheconombank organized 29 volunteering actions, nearly twice as many as during the previous period. Additionally Vnesheconombank’s employees initiated new directions of volunteering including aid to the nursing home in Ostashevo, Volokolamski District, Moscow Region and the homeless pet shelter Alma Major lines of Vnesh­econom­bank Corporate Volunteering in 2012 (% of the total events) 3.4% 6.9% 6.9% Helping orphanage children in the Moscow Region 6.9% 41.4% Supporting the nursing home in Ostashevo Rendering help to employees and their families Blood donation Assistance to the Russian Orthodox Church 13.8% Aid to homeless animal shelters Relief to flood victims in the Krasnodar Territory 20.7% In 2012 the money collected by Vnesh­ econom­ Ostashevo, Volokolamsk District, Moscow Region. bank’s employees was spent to buy special beds for Donations were also sent to the homeless pet shelter bed-ridden patients, new linoleum floor covering and “Alma” for the building restoration after fire and purto repair the treatment room in the nursing home in chasing pet food. BACK TO CONTENTS 122 Corporate Life Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees were quick to respond to the flood in the Krasnodar Territory collecting money and humanitarian aid for the flood victims. The action involved over 300 Vnesh­econom­bank employees In 2012, developing the traditional lines of volunteer In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank continued implementing activities, Vnesh­econom­bank’s employees continued the “Give a Helping Hand” project to render financial supporting children from the Voskresensk orphanage. support to the Bank’s employees and their relatives Within the framework of traditional annual initiatives and friends in a financial predicament. During the such as “Birthday” and “New Year”, the children were year, 4 employees applied to their colleagues for help. given presents and taken to the Moon Theatre and Fundraising was organized for Ilyinskaya Church in the planetarium. A paintball tournament involving the Petrovskoye under the project “Act of Kindness Day”. Bank’s corporate team “Web” was arranged. AdditionAlso, more than 100 people including the VEB Group ally, in the summer the children were sent to the vacaemployees were engaged in blood donor initiatives. tion hotel “Sheksna” in Sochi. Corporate Volunteering within VEB Group In 2012 volunteer actions became more popular among the VEB Group entities. Apart from Prominvestbank’s and SME Bank’s employees already involved in the 2011 volunteer projects, VEB-Leasing, VEB Capital and Svyaz-Bank joined the activities in 2012. Under the 1st volunteer action “True Miracle” organized by VEB-Leasing in December 2012, employees collected money for the Children’s Infectious Hospital named after N.F. Filatov, handicapped children of the Krasnoselski District, Saint Petersburg, and children with orthopedic diseases. Actions to collect money for flood victims in the Krasnodar Territory were conducted by SME Bank, Svyaz-Bank and VEB Capital. Additionally, SME Bank employees continued supporting the Yelatomski orphanage school. The volunteer campaign organized in 2012 by Prominvestbank was aimed at collecting money for the orphanage in Denishi, Zhitomir Region. Prominvestbank employees arranged the production of the play “Cashless Love”, the box-office receipts to be spent on the orphanage repairs. Post-Reporting Period Events In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank came up with the initiative to promote corporate volunteering within the VEB Group. Involvement in joint volunteer activities will bring people together and strengthen VEB employees’ team spirit 123 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.2. Environmental Initiatives The global environmental threats faced by contemporary society show that each particular entity should reduce its ecological footprint, whether it is engaged in production or purely office work. Recognizing the relevance of the issue, Vnesh­econom­bank embarked on developing its own corporate environmental policies thus specifying the benchmarks for further ecological culture development in the Russian business community 4.2.1. Management of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Environmental Impacts In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank formulated draft corpo• sustainable resource exploitation aimed at the rate environmental policies designed to minimize the implementation of administrative tools and technolenvironmental impacts of the Bank’s business activogies enabling the efficient consumption of power, ities. The policies provide for taking a number of orheat, water, paper, inventories and optimization of ganizational, procedural and control measures to opthe corporate car fleet operation; timize the volume of consumed resources, reduce the carbon footprint, use environmentally safe products, • waste management designed to reduce waste reduce the waste volume, etc. The principal elements volume and increase the share of waste subject to of the corporate environmental policies are as follows: reuse or recycling and identify alternative modes of utilizing retired assets; • implementing the “life cycle” approach to mitigate the negative environmental impact of Vnesh­ • recording environment protection costs to econom­bank’s business activities at all stages of the implement a system of Vnesh­econom­bank’s capital life cycle of employed products and services, from and operating expenditure record-keeping includtheir procurement to the termination of employing the cost of waste management, investments in ment and recycling; energy-saving equipment and technologies, improving the environmental management system and en• “green procurement policies” implying standvironment pollution charges. ard requirements to products, works and services procured by Vnesh­econom­bank and environmental friendliness criteria for providers; BACK TO CONTENTS 124 Corporate Life Basic Principles of Vnesh­econom­bank’s Corporate Environmental Policies Any business decisions of Vnesh­econom­bank relating to water, power and heat conEnvironmental thinking sumption, car fleet operation and inventory employment, procurement policy, waste disposal, etc. are made subject to their environmental impact Implementation of advanced “green The corporate environmental policy is implemented based on the best practices of office” technologies Russian and foreign financial institutions and advanced “green office” technologies The measures aimed at minimizing a negative environmental impact are taken Ensuring a favourable working provided an uninterrupted power and water supply is ensured and favourable working environment conditions provided for VEB’s meet the applicable health standards Reports on the corporate environmental policy implementation are annually published Publicity within the framework of the Bank’s sustainability report preparation 4.2.2. Environmental Impact Management within VEB Group The VEB Group entities undertake on a continuous Optimization of the Cost of Maintaining Premises basis actions designed to reduce the consumption of not Used for Operations”. heat and power, water, paper and motor fuel. In 2012 a number of the Group members prepared and impleIn 2012 the VEB Group entities were not charged mented internal regulatory documents containing enpenalties or subjected to non-financial sanctions for vironmental components including: non-compliance with the applicable environmental law. The 2012 environmental expenses of the VEB • the strategy of car fleet renewal subject to the curGroup entities amounted to RUB 46.284 mn10 includrent environmental indicators of SME Bank; ing purchasing of energy-saving office equipment, motor cars meeting at least the Euro 4 environmental • the executive order of Prominvestbank director for standard, waste management, etc. finance and operations “On Taking Actions for the 10 The aggregate environmental expenses do not include those of VEB Engineering, VEB-Leasing, VEB Innovations, RDIF and the Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund. 125 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Actions reducing resource consumption within VEB Group Office building repairs utiUsing energy-saving Regular preventive mainHeat supply and ventilalizing advanced insulating equipment tenance tion adjustment materials VEB-Leasing V GLOBEXBANK V V V SME Bank V V V V Svyaz-Bank V V V EXIAR V V V V North Caucasus Development V V Corporation BelVEB V V V V Paper saving actions within VEB Group Electronic document Specifying paper Duplexing Rough copy use management allowance VEB-Leasing V SME Bank V V V Roseximbank V V V Svyaz-Bank V V V FCPF V V EXIAR V BACK TO CONTENTS 126 Corporate Life Paper saving actions within VEB Group Electronic document Specifying paper Duplexing Rough copy use management allowance North Caucasus Development V V V Corporation BelVEB V V Far East and Baikal Region DeV V V velopment Fund Actions reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emission within VEB Group Replacing obReducing solete transport Use of fuel Optimizing Regular Fixing fuel business trips with cars meetmeeting Euro 4 of company preventive consumption through use of ing at least Euro environmental vehicle routes maintenance limit state-of-the-art 4 environmental standard communications standard VEB-Leasing V V GLOBEXBANK V V V V V SME Bank V V V V V V Roseximbank V V V V V V Svyaz-Bank V V V V V North Caucasus Development V V V V V Corporation BelVEB V V V V V Far East and Baikal Region V V V V V Development Fund 127 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.2.3. Consumption of Resources Consumption of resources (electricity, heat and waIn 2012 the Bank employees were accommodated in ter) is metered in 2 office buildings owned by Vnesh­ the repaired “L” zone of Vnesh­econom­bank’s building econom­bank located at: located at: 9, Prospekt Akademika Sakharova. The seating capacity of the “L” zone increased from 30% • 9, Prospekt Akademika Sakharova, (occupying a toin 2011 to 98% in 2012. tal of 33,437.5 square meters); The “L” zone expansion in 2012 resulted in the grow• 8, ul. Serpukhovsky Val, (occupying a total of 1,335.7 ing water and heat consumption aggravated by unfasquare meters). vourable weather conditions. The actual consumption of electricity, heat and water Owing to the replacement of outdated copiers and in leased premises is not metered. The cost of conoffice equipment with energy-efficient equipment sumed resources is included in the rent or paid as a Vnesh­econom­bank managed to avoid increased powfixed amount of reimbursement for operating expenses. er consumption. Post-Reporting Period Events In 2013 Vnesh­econom­bank performed a fuel-and-power consumption survey resulting in the issuance of a fuel-and-power consumption certificate and development of the Energy Saving and Energy Efficiency Program aimed at compliance with organizational, legal, economic, scientific and technical requirements providing for energy saving through the use of identified energysaving potential. The Program embraces the period of up to 2017 enabling a 15% reduction in fuel-and-power consumption BACK TO CONTENTS 128 Corporate Life Resource Consumption within VEB Group In 2012 the entire VEB Group saw the growth of electricity and heat consumption and lower water consumption. The most significant electricity and heat consumption growth was recorded in GLOBEXBANK and Prominvestbank resulting respectively from the commissioning of a new office building and the increased number of occupied premises. At the same time, Prominvestbank showed a considerable reduction in water consumption owing to control over hot and cold water use and timely maintenance of plumbing fixtures. Power consumption within VEB Group, GJ Heat consumption within VEB Group, GJ 2012 68,375.04 2012 76,754.8 2011 65,676.08 2011 53,753.43 2010 58,325.02 2010 51,303.98 Water consumption within VEB Group, m3 2012 67,802.3 2011 83,689.67 2010 91,169.8 In 2012 the VEB Group modified the resource consumption calculation procedure to include in non-financial reports information on resource consumption only by the entities owning the office space. Therefore, the 2012 consolidated Group data contain resource consumption by GLOBEXBANK, BelVEB and Prominvestbank. 129 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Power consumption by Vnesh­econom­bank, GJ Heat consumption by Vnesh­econom­bank, GJ 2012 31,802.8 2012 26,298.4 2011 31,765.6 2011 22,032.6 2010 29,274.0 2010 22,139.0 Water consumption by Vnesh­econom­bank, m3 2012 19,789.7 2011 17,386.9 2010 20,741.8 4.2.4. Paper Consumption In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank managed to significantmanagement system was used by 1,678 employees ly reduce its paper consumption owing to the tran(83%). The system also supports the iPAD electronsition to electronic document management. As of ic documentation processing by Vnesh­econom­bank’s 2012 year end, the computer-based documentation administration. The transition to electronic documentation management resulted in the paper consumption reduction by 13.1 tonnes, an equivalent of 223 trees Vnesh­econom­bank procures paper products from the vironmental requirements and certified as compliant companies pursuing responsible environmental and with the international standards, including Nordic social policies. The paper used by Vnesh­econom­bank Swan, EU Flower, PEFC. is manufactured in accordance with the advanced enBACK TO CONTENTS 130 Corporate Life Paper consumption by Vnesh­econom­bank, t 2012 72.6 2011 85.7 2010 77.7 Paper Consumption within VEB Group 2012 witnessed the growth of paper consumption by most of the VEB Group entities except VEB Capital which reduced its paper consumption. The most significant paper consumption growth was recorded in BelVEB (due to the customer base expansion and restyling), VEB-Leasing (due to the increased number of transactions) and GLOBEXBANK. Paper consumption within VEB Group, t 2012 454.59 2011 387.75 2010 419.28 Consolidated paper consumption data reflects all VEB Group entities except RDIF (during the previous period paper consumption data was not included for FCPF, EXIAR, VEB Innovations and the Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund, a reason for the total Group paper consumption growth in 2012). 131 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.2.5. Waste Disposal In 2012 Vnesh­ econom­ bank prepared and had apholding appropriate licenses. Paper waste (documenproved by Rosprirodnadzor for the Central Federal tation) is delivered for recycling. District the Regulations for Waste Disposal Process Supervision and the 2012 regular technical report on In 2012 Vnesh­econom­bank paid RUB 2,019 mn in the process consistency and waste generation. charges for negative environmental impact, the bulk (RUB 2,015 mn) relating to waste disposal. No fines Vnesh­econom­bank’s waste with the exception of fluowere imposed on Vnesh­econom­bank for breaching rescent mercury-containing tubes does not pose any the Law on Environmental Protection and Natural environmental threat and relates to hazard classes Resource Management. III, IV and V. Waste is disposed by specialized entities Aggregate Volume of Production and Consumption Waste within VEB Group Indicator 2010 2011 2012 Extra-hazardous waste (hazard class I) Vnesh­econom­ Group Vnesh­ Group Vnesh­econom­ Group bank entities econom­bank entities bank entities Mercury-containing waste (fluo2,650 2,804 4,082 3,708 5,458 rescent lamps), pieces Low-hazard waste (hazard class IV) Solid waste 453.9 587.7 1,006.78 664.2 486.19 Non-hazardous waste (hazard class V) Paper waste (docu22.8 29.9 22.7 24.8 33.54 mentation), t Consolidated mercury-containing waste data include SME Bank, Svyaz-Bank, EXIAR, BelVEB and Prominvestbank. Solid waste data include SME Bank, Roseximbank, Svyaz-Bank, EXIAR, BelVEB and Prominvestbank (except the 2012 solid waste data for Prominvestbank). Paper waste data include Roseximbank, Svyaz-Bank and BelVEB. BACK TO CONTENTS 132 Corporate Life 4.2.6. Air Pollutant Emission Vnesh­econom­bank has in place only mobile sources least with the Euro 4 environmental standard and of pollutant emissions, namely: transport. 2012 withigh-powered cars complying at least with the Euro 5 nessed the growth of total distance traveled by transenvironmental standard. port and fuel consumption deriving from an increase in the number of business trips. It should be noted that In the future, Vnesh­econom­bank plans to continue the fuel consumption per 1 km remained at the 2011 actions aimed at reducing CO2 emissions including by level. way of: Increased fuel consumption resulted in CO2 emissions • purchasing fuel meeting at least the Euro 4 environgrowth by 63.6 t against the previous period. The fines mental standard; for air pollution imposed on Vnesh­ econom­bank in 2012 amounted to RUB 4.4 thousand. • purchasing transport complying with at least the Euro 4 environmental standard; In 2012, to reduce the air pollutant emissions, Vnesh­ econom­bank continued replacement of the obsolete • reducing the distance traveled and the duration of car fleet by the purchase of transport complying at parking with a working engine. Total Distance Traveled, Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions by Vnesh­econom­bank’s Motor Vehicles 1,923.2 2012 846.5 4,910.2 1,859.6 2011 818.5 4,708.9 1,792.7 2010 786.3 4,541.7 CO2 emissions, t Total fuel consumption, thou l Total distance traveled, thou km 133 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Total Distance Traveled, Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions by VEB Group’s Motor Vehicles 2012 saw a slight growth of the total distance traveled, fuel consumption and CO2 emissions within the VEB Group, primarily in BelVEB (due to the opening of new customer service centres) and Prominvestbank. The aggregate growth was also caused by the consolidation of information on the North Caucasus Development Corporation and EXIAR which was not included during the previous period. At the same time certain entities of the Group (VEB Engineering and VEB Capital) showed a considerable reduction in the total distance traveled and fuel consumption. Total Distance Traveled, Fuel Consumption and CO2 Emissions by VEB Group’s Motor Vehicles 4,639.13 2012 2,041.89 12,174.7 4,321.05 2011 1,901.87 11,294.02 4,110.44 2010 1,806.43 10,900.88 CO2 emissions, t Total fuel consumption, thou l Total distance traveled, thou km Consolidated data does not include RDIF and VEB Innovations. BACK TO CONTENTS 134 Appendices Table of Report Compliance with GRI Guidelines and Financial Services Sector Supplement Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 1.1 p. 4–7 the relevance of sustainability for the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 10–14, 18–26 2.1 Name of the organization p. 8–9, 148 2.2 Primary brands, types of products and/or services p. 10–19, 27–32 2.3 Operational structure of the organization p. 10–14 2.4 Location of the organization's headquarters p. 148 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to p. 10–14 the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 8–9, 148 2.7 Markets served p. 10–14, 27–32 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization p. 33–64, 70–89, 108–110 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, 2.9 p. 10–14 or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 27–32 3.1 Reporting period for information provided p. 8–9 3.2 Date of most recent previous report p. 8–9 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 8–9 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents p. 8–9, 148 3.5 Process for defining the report content p. 8–9 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 8–9 135 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report p. 8–9 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect p. 8–14 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compip. 8–9, 23–24 lation of the Indicators and other information in the report Explanations of the effect of any restatements of information provided in 3.10 None earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, bounda3.11 p. 8–9, 23–24, 129 ry, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report p. 135–144 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 3.13 p. 146–147 the report Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting p. 15–19 strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2 p. 15–19 executive officer For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number Not applicable, since Vnesheconombank’s cor4.3 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or porate structure does not provide for a unitary non-executive members board structure. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 p. 15–19, 113 or direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance 4.5 p. 112 body, senior managers, and executives and the organization's performance Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 4.6 p. 15–19 interest are avoided Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members 4.7 of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on p. 15–19 economic, environmental, and social topics BACK TO CONTENTS 136 Appendices Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social perforp. 10–14, 22–32 mance and the status of their implementation p. 22–32 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizaVnesheconombank submits reports to the tion’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and soGovernment of the Russian Federation and the 4.9 cial performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence Supervisory Board of Vnesheconombank in or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and accordance with Article 7 of the Federal Law principles “On Bank for Development” and Article 11 of the Memorandum on Financial Policies of Vnesheconombank. The list of details submitted by Vnesheconombank to the Government of the Russian Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, Federation and the Supervisory Board of Vne4.10 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social perforsheconombank is specified in the Federal Law mance “On Bank for Development,” the Memorandum on Financial Policies of Vnesheconombank and other regulations. p. 18–19, 27–32, 124–127 Vnesheconombank does not directly address Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle the precautionary principle to its activities. Ap4.11 is addressed by the organization proach to the risk management is described in the Annual Report and the issuer’s statements available from: www.veb.ru/about/annual. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, princi4.12 p. 24–32, 80–82 ples or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 4.13 p. 24–27, 41–42, 80–82 national/international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p. 99–101 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 99–101 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engage4.16 p. 99–106, 113 ment by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics p. 8–9 and concerns, including through its reporting 137 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement Management Approach p. 27–32 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to FS1 p. 20–32, 124–125 business lines Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in FS2 p. 27–32, 77–79 business lines Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance FS3 with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or p. 31–32 transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmenFS4 p. 23–24, 114–115 tal and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environFS5 p. 22–32, 102–106 mental and social risks and opportunities Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. FS6 p. 27–40, 56–58, 70–79 micro/SME/large) and by sector Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS7 p. 33–46, 51–64, 85–89, 102–106 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS8 p. 47–50 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type p. 36–40 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people p. 102–106 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary p. 63–69, 77 Economic Performance Indicators Management Approach p. 20–26 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, p. 90–93 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community EC1 See also Vnesheconombank’s Annual Report investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 2012 at:http://www.veb.ru/about/annual/. BACK TO CONTENTS 138 Appendices Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations p. 118–121 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum EC5 p. 112 wage at significant locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 p. 111 from the local community at locations of significant operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services p. 27–28, 33–40, 47–50, 59–64, 83, EC8 provided primarily of public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro 90–93,102–106 bono engagement Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 p. 33–64, 70–84 including the extent of impacts Environmental Performance Indicators Management Approach p. 20–32, 124–127 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 130–131, 133–134 Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials subsidiaries use any materials classified as recycled or reused waste. p. 128–130 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group subsidiaries use any nonrenewable energy sources. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 133–134 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products EN6 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these p. 125–129 initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved p. 133–134 Vnesheconombank and VEB Group subsidiEN8 Total water withdrawal by source aries entered into contracts for utility services including water supply. Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water subsidiaries have significant impacts on any water bodies in the course of their business. 139 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. subsidiaries have significant impacts on any water bodies in the course of their business. Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, proEN11 subsidiaries operate in protected areas and tected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas areas of high biodiversity value. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside subsidiaries operate in protected areas and protected areas areas of high biodiversity value. Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN13 Habitats protected or restored subsidiaries have impacts on biodiversity in the course of their business. Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 subsidiaries have impacts on biodiversity in biodiversity the course of their business. Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species EN15 subsidiaries have impacts on biodiversity in with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk the course of their business. p. 133–134 The total volume of the Group’s indirect emissions is 13,143.2 tonnes of СО2 equivalent. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Emissions are calculated using the method of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change: http://www.ipcc.ch/home_languages_main_ russian.shtml#.UG671pgyKfZ. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. 133–134 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved p. 128–130,133–134 Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group subsidiaries produce emissions ofozone– EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight depleting substancesin the course of their business. Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight subsidiaries produce significant air emissions in the course of their business. BACK TO CONTENTS 140 Appendices Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources p. 128–130 Vnesheconombank and VEB Group subsidiEN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination aries entered into contracts for utility services including water discharge. The volume of discharge is equal to the volume of consumption. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 132 In 2012, no significant spills were recorded in EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Vnesheconombank and VEB Group subsidiaries. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazNeither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN24 ardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and subsidiaries are engaged in any activities percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. related to hazardous waste. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s subsidiaries have significant impacts on any discharges of water and runoff water bodies in the course of their business. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN26 p. 124–134 extent of impact mitigation Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are This indicator is not relevant for VnesheconomEN27 reclaimed by category bank and VEB Group subsidiaries. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 p. 125–127,132 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other EN29 goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transportp. 133–134 ing members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type p. 125–127 Labor Practices Performance Indicators Management Approach p. 107–108,113 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region p. 108–110 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and LA2 p. 108–111 region 141 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to tempoLA3 p. 112,118–120 rary or part-time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 107–108 The current version of the collective agreement does not provide for the definition of the minimum employees’ notice period regarding Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, the employer’s significant operational changes. LA5 including whether it is specified in collective agreements The employees are notified of significant operational changes in Vnesheconombank and its subsidiary banks in accordance with the Labor Code of the Russian Federation. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and LA7 p. 117–120 total number of work-related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programmes Neither Vnesheconombank nor VEB Group LA8 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community memsubsidiaries provide training regarding serious bers regarding serious diseases diseases. The current version of the collective agreement provides for that the trade union and the LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions employer annually approve the plan of mass cultural and health and fitness events. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee category p. 114–115 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career p. 114–115 endings Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and p. 15–16, 108–110 other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Ratio of basic salary of men to women is 1:1. Human Rights Performance Indicators Management Approach p. 22–26, 107–108 No incidents of gender, race, or nationality HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken discrimination were revealed in the practices of Vnesheconombank. BACK TO CONTENTS 142 Appendices Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources Neither Vnesheconombank nor its subsidiaries Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association are engaged in any activities in which the right HR5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to to exercise freedom of association and collecsupport these rights tive bargaining may be at risk. Neither Vnesheconombank nor its subsidiaries Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, HR6 are involved in any activities which may have and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor significant risk for incidents of child labor. Neither Vnesheconombank nor its subsidiarOperations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or ies are engaged in any activities which may HR7 compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of have significant risk for incidents of forced or forced or compulsory labor compulsory labor. Neither Vnesheconombank nor its subsidiarTotal number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous ies are engaged in any activities which may HR9 people and actions taken have significant risk for incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people. Society Performance Indicators Management Approach p. 22–26, 94–98 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that SO1 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including p. 31–32, 36–37, 61–63 entering, operating, and exiting Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies SO3 p. 94–95 and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption p. 94–95 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 p. 15–19, 33–40, 51–64, 70–79, 83, 99–101 lobbying Given that the authorized capital of Vnesheconombank includes federal property (shares, real estate, asset contribution made Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politiSO6 by the government), Vnesheconombank is an cians, and related institutions by country entity which is not entitled to support political parties in accordance with the Federal Law “On Political Parties.” Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 p. 94–98 monopoly practices and their outcomes 143 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pages of the Report/Comments and Addition№ Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator al Information/References to Other Sources In 2012,Vnesheconombank and VEB Group Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary subsidiaries were not liable to any significant SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations fines or non–monetary sanctions for non–compliance with laws and regulatory requirements. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Management Approach p. 22–26, 94–98, 102–106 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and This indicator is not relevant for VnesheconomPR1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant bank and VEB Group subsidiaries. products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunThis indicator is not relevant for VnesheconomPR2 tary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services bank and VEB Group subsidiaries. during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and perThis indicator is not relevant for VnesheconomPR3 centage of significant products and services subject to such information bank and VEB Group subsidiaries. requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volunThis indicator is not relevant for VnesheconomPR4 tary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by bank and VEB Group subsidiaries. type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 p. 102–104 measuring customer satisfaction Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 p. 94–98 privacy and losses of customer data In 2012, Vnesheconombank and VEB Group subsidiaries were not liable to any significant Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulaPR9 fines for non–compliance with the laws and tions concerning the provision and use of products and services regulatory requirements concerning the provision and use of products and services. BACK TO CONTENTS 144 Appendices Statement of Progress in Complying with the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact In 2011, Vnesheconombank joined the United such as human rights, labor, environment and antiNations Global Compact (UNGC), thus proving its corruption. In accordance with the recommendations intent to comply with and promote in the business of UNGC the statement of progress is prepared community the ten principles of UNGC in areas based on the GRI Guidelines. Principle of the UN Global Compact Disclosure/GRI Performance Indicator Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed EC5, LA4, LA7-LA9, LA13, LA14, HR4human rights. HR9, SO5, PR1, PR2, PR8 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR4-HR9, SO5 Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. LA4, LA5, HR5, SO5 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. HR7, SO5 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. HR6, SO5 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and EC7, LA2, LA13, LA14, HR4, SO5 occupation. Environment FS1-FS3, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. FS1-FS3, EN1-EN4, EN6-EN30, SO5, 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PR3, PR4 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly FS1-FS3, EN6, EN7, EN10, EN18, EN26, technologies. EN27, EN30, SO5 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. SO3-SO6 145 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BACK TO CONTENTS 146 Appendices 147 BACK TO CONTENTS 2012 VNESHECONOMBANK GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contact Information State Corporation “Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs (Vnesh­econom­bank)” 9, Prospekt Akademika Sakharova, Moscow, GSP-6, Russia, 107996 Tel.: +7 (495) 721-18-63 Tel.: +7 (495) 721-18-63 www.veb.ru Please e-mail your proposals for the development of the VEB Group non-financial reporting practices including comments on this Report’s contents, visual presentation, interaction with stakeholders during the Report preparation to: csr@veb.ru We will appreciate your opinion! BACK TO CONTENTS 148
