Changing the equation the impact of hp global citizenship in 2009—and beyond Energy: Business constraint or catalyst? See page 4 How tech is helping cure healthcare See page 12 Transforming education to fuel economic growth See page 16 WELCOME This publication complements HP’s annual report detailing our programs, performance and goals across a wide array of issues that make up global citizenship. Inside you’ll find highlights from 2009 along with essays exploring issues reshaping business, society and the environment. CHANGING In 2010, International data corporation THE EQUATION (IDC) estimates the Powerful forces are transforming how the world lives and works, placing world will create unprecedented demands on everything from our healthcare and educa­ 988 exabytes of tion systems to our energy grid. We need bold thinking, new solutions, data—18 million a fresh approach. Technology holds the key. By using resources more times the efficiently, harnessing the power of information and sparking wider amount of innovation, we can use technology to meet rising social and environ­ information mental needs and change the equation for generations to come. in all the books ever written.1 See page 14 Global citizenship overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Letter from CEO Mark Hurd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Changing the equation: Energy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Reducing data center energy use. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Cool data center design. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 5 steps to save energy, paper and money . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 HP global citizenship in action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Responsible supply chain management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Changing the equation: Healthcare. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Harnessing the information explosion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Changing the equation: Education. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 25% Just 25% of the world’s population is online. 2 As billions more get access to mobile devices and the Internet, that figure will skyrocket, generating enormous volumes of data. See page 14 ENERGY 1.15 bILLION The global middle class will triple to 1.15 billion HEALTHCARE by 2030, 3 intensifying demand for energy and $1.2 natural resources. See page 4 80% trillion An estimated $1.2 trillion is wasted annually in the U.S. healthcare system, with redundant pro­ Most scientists agree that global greenhouse cedures and inefficient administration cited as gas emissions must be cut by 80% by 2050 to two of the largest reasons. 5 See page 12 mitigate the worst effects of climate change. 4 10–15% See page 4 In the U.S. alone, e-health solutions could cut AFRICA healthcare costs between 10 and 15 percent. 6 See page 12 EDUCATION The 71 exodus of million educators and Worldwide, 71 million children of primary school age aren’t in school, 7 leaving them researchers unprepared to get ahead in today’s knowledge costs Africa economy. See page 16 an estimated 16% $4 billion a year in economic An estimated 776 million adults—16% of the growth.9 global adult population—lack basic literacy skills. 8 See page 16 See page 17 As one of HP’s seven corporate objectives, global citizenship has long been integral to the success of our business. It drives us to meet higher standards of integrity, contribution and accountability as we align our business goals with our impacts on society and the environment. Our commitment is shaped by issues—such as meeting energy needs of a fast-growing global population, responding to climate change, managing the information explosion and transforming education— that cut across industries, economies and borders, and require new levels of leadership, innovation and collaboration. HP is responding by focusing where we believe we can apply our technologies, resources and expertise for greatest impact. From how we develop products to how we run our operations, manage our supply chain and engage with stakeholders, global citizenship drives us to accept challenges and pursue solutions that fuel ongoing innovation and growth. Read more about HP’s global citizenship strategy and programs at www.hp.com/go/globalcitizenship. 2 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND At HP, we are committed to aligning our business goals with our impacts on society and the environment. Global citizenship influences how we run our business, holding us to high standards of integrity, ethics, contri­ bution and accountability in everything we do. Through rigorous internal policies and active engagement with outside stakeholders, we work to ensure that we live up to our ideals. In 2009, the global economy experienced the worst recession in a gen­ eration. At HP, we set a goal of controlling discretionary spending, while keeping the muscle of the organization intact. Thanks to the hard work and talent of HP employees, we were able to maintain forward progress on our core strategy. That includes our commitment to global citizenship, which we believe becomes even more important in difficult times. With the expansion of our enterprise services capabilities, HP can do more than ever to help our customers build sustainable businesses. We are working in areas such as education, healthcare and energy to harness the power of information, using IT to change the equation and help create a more efficient, environmentally responsible and equitable world. And in HP Labs, we’re working on the future. Innovations like nanoscale sensors, breakthrough software for analytics and knowledge discovery, and data centers with net-zero environmental impact will be the building blocks of tomorrow’s sustainable society. We are also improving HP’s own products and operations. Last year, we announced that by the end of 2011, we will reduce the energy consump­ tion and associated greenhouse gas emissions of all HP products com­ bined by 40 percent compared with 2005 levels. We are leveraging the power of our supply chain to protect both the environment and human rights. And through HP’s Office of Global Social Innovation, we are developing new ideas and approaches for education and healthcare delivery. Around the world, our efforts are supported by HP employees who volunteer in their local communities and donate in conjunction with HP matching grants to the causes they care about most. At HP, we also recognize that these issues are bigger than any single organization can address on its own, so we support the UN Global Compact to promote higher standards, and we cultivate partnerships with industry peers, gov­ ernments and NGOs to achieve our shared objectives. Together, these coordinated initiatives have helped put HP at the fore­ front of global citizenship. Corporate Responsibility Magazine recently recognized our efforts with the No. 1 ranking in the annual 100 Best Corporate Citizens List, and Newsweek ranked HP as the greenest com­ pany among the 500 largest corporations in America. In the years ahead, we are well positioned to lead the evolution of our industry and create extraordinary opportunities for our customers, our stockholders, our people and the world around us. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 3 ENERGY CHANGING THE EQUATION With global demand forecast to increase by over 40% by are on target to save 1 billion kWh of electricity by 2011, rela­ 2030, the challenge is clear: we must conserve and produce tive to 2008. And we’re rethinking power-hungry data centers more energy sustainably while emitting significantly less from the ground up (see following page) to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas.10 consumption and carbon emissions. Technology offers an answer. While the IT industry contributes Nanotechnology offers even greater promise. An HP Labs 2 percent of global carbon emissions, the larger opportunity initiative dubbed Central Nervous System for the Earth (CeNSE) is using technology to lower the other 98 percent. HP is apply­ will embed billions of networked sensors in the world’s infra­ ing IT in new ways to help individuals, enterprises and indus­ structure—buildings, transportation systems, agricultural tries reduce their carbon footprint by increasing transparency, fields—to monitor energy use and align supply with demand, improving efficiency and transforming existing processes. decreasing waste and reducing risk in the electricity grid. Information is power Transform how the world lives and works Technology can help us understand how we’re using energy— Beyond increasing efficiency, the ultimate goal is to replace insight that can trigger changes in processes and behavior. energyand resource-intensive processes and behaviors with sustainable ones. For example, the Advanced Meter Infrastructure solution employs HP technology to monitor energy consumption In this area, HP is advancing ways to use light rather than wire in real time, so utilities and customers can anticipate and to transmit data. It’s more efficient (and reduces demand for reduce demand. mining copper) while delivering greater bandwidth. We’re integrating this technology in HP blade servers, and by 2017 We’re also helping businesses and consumers measure energy we’ll be using it for intra-chip communication. and emissions with our online Carbon Footprint Calculator for printers and PCs. For more a comprehensive view, HP’s Carbon HP’s Halo Collaboration Studios save energy and reduce Impact Assessment Service takes into account the energy use emissions by providing the advantages of meeting in person and associated emissions of an entire IT environment. without the environmental toll—and costs—of travel. Avoiding one round-trip flight from New York to London saves 3,000 Increase efficiency pounds of CO2 per person. Think of the impact if just a frac­ Technology can save energy by boosting efficiency; innova­ tion of the thousands of business trips taken each day were tions in HP’s high-volume HP desktop and notebook PC families replaced by Halo. A Low-Carbon Diet for a Power-Hungry Planet 40% 131 kWh HP will reduce energy consumption and HP purchased approximately MILLION associated GHG emissions of all products 131 million kWh of renewable 40% below 2005 levels by the end of 2011. energy worldwide in 2009. 4 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND PowerING down: Why reduce data center energy use While energy-efficient data centers are receiving heightened attention, a recent survey found some IT directors still rank energy as a low priority.11 Here are five reasons why they should reconsider: DOUBLE 30× UP TO Growth in data center energy consumption over the How much more it costs annually past five years. And it’s expected to double again in to power a data center compared OUTSIDE VOICES the next five to over 100 billion kWh—at a cost of with a commercial office building, Amory B. Lovins $7.4 billion annually.12 on a square-foot basis.13 Chairman & chief scientist, Rocky Mountain Institute 50% 60% 45% Ubiquitous IT has changed the lives of billions of people. In 2005, servers (including Cost to cool a typical Data center capacity Estimated energy savings in data center—in other that can be wasted the data center due to energytheir cooling and auxiliary words, it costs as much due to poorly designed management best practices equipment) used 1.2 percent of to cool as to compute.14 layouts and airflow.15 combined with IT consolidation.16 U.S. and 0.8 percent of global electricity; all IT, telecoms and office equipment used 3 percent of U.S. electricity. However, IT’s growth is increasingly offset by powersipping hardware, server-sharing software, terse code, and efficient power supplies and cooling systems. For example, the new Wynyard data center that my team co-designed with EDS (now part of HP) got 16-fold more computing per kWh than conventional designs, and cost one-tenth less to build. Full exploitation of the identified opportuni­ ties would have boosted energy productivity by about 80-fold at half normal capital cost. Moreover, IT probably saves far more energy indirectly than it uses directly. Computers optimize car engines. Electronic controls improve buildings and factories. Computer analysis fine-tunes nearly everything that makes or uses energy. The Internet itself probably saves energy: videoconferences displace flying, a Google search releasing 0.2 grams of carbon displaces thousands-fold more carbon released by driving to the library, and e-commerce reduces retail and warehouse space and shipping. IT is also enabling a dramatic shift of power generation from fossil and nuclear fuels to renewables. In 2008, the world invested more in renewable than in fossil-fueled electricity generation; renewables (except big hydro) plus cogeneration produced two-thirds of the world’s new electricity. IT is both using energy with elegant frugality and enabling huge energy savings and 2× climate-safe sources. Together, IT and energy are creating HP’s goal is to double voluntary purchases of renewable energy abundance by design. Their convergence marks one of the to 8% by 2012. century’s greatest business opportunities. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 5 HP’s Wynyard data center opened for business in February 2010. The 360,000square-foot facility is one of the largest in Europe. Wynyard won the Green Datacentre Award in 2008 in recognition of its environ­ mentally responsible design. The roof collects rainwater, using it for landscaping and firefighting systems. Rainwater is also filtered and stored in 80,000-liter tanks and used to boost humid­ ity levels when the air is too dry. Cold North Sea air is circulated throughout the Cool data center, cooling equipment and allowing the facility to go without air conditioning 97% of the time. data center Walls and server racks are white, a design choice that conserves energy by reducing the need for lighting and saves about $7 million a year. Design To save energy, sensors turn lights on only when needed. Lights are angled at 45 degrees to the server rows, brightening the facility and reducing the number of As a result of their rapidly rising energy fixtures needed. consumption, data centers worldwide now account for more emissions than Argentina Wynyard has a Power Usage Effectiveness score and the Netherlands combined.17 of 1.2; the closer to 1.0, the better. A typical data center earns a 2.0, while most sustainable facilities have An innovative facility in Wynyard, UK, designed scores of about 1.7. and managed by HP, is a notable step toward Reflective material on the roof deflects sunlight reversing that trend. We’ve applied a systemsto ensure that the building absorbs as little heat as based approach, taking advantage of local possible. Wind-powered sources provide 10% conditions to reduce environmental impact. of the facility’s energy. The Wynyard data center is expected to reduce In a typical year, the facility is expected to produce energy consumption by 40 percent, cut emissions 8,770 tonnes of CO2, roughly half of what a and save up to $15 million annually. comparable data center would produce. #1 1 kWh HP’s ranking in both Newsweek’s Green HP’s goal is to save customers 1 billion kWh by 2011 BILLION Rankings of America’s 500 largest corporations through improved energy efficiency of HP’s high-volume and the Climate Counts Company Scorecard. HP desktop and notebook PC families, relative to 2008. 6 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND 5 steps to save energy, paper and money An average printing fleet serving 700 people uses over 33,000 kWh, generates nearly 190,000 pounds of CO2 and costs $700,000 annually.18 The opportunities to reduce costs and environmental impact are substantial. 1 Assess impact First identify inefficiencies. 2 Cut energy use An outdated fleet wastes 3 Stop wasting paper Setting duplex printing 4 Recycle more Storing old IT in a closet 5 Go digital Paper-based workflows The typical ratio of users energy. HP helped 3M as its default helped one is a security risk. And slow productivity and to printing devices is 1:3, optimize its printing infra­ Fortune 500 company tossing print cartridges waste resources. Caja when most networked structure, reducing con­ conserve an estimated in the trash can harm the Madrid implemented devices can handle more. sumption by an estimated 800 tons of paper environment. HP recycling an HP digital document Redundant devices waste 79.9%, saving $1.2 million annually. programs have recovered delivery system and cut energy. over three years. over 2.04 billion pounds paper use 15% while of electronics and HP print improving customer cartridges since 1987. service. A logical approach HP Carbon Footprint to printing Calculator Years of acquisitions left IT services and business provider Logica with little con­ With the web-based HP Carbon Footprint Calculator, trol over printers and copiers in remote offices. HP Managed Print Services helped you can measure how applying power-saving technolo­ reduce its overall printing costs by an estimated 39% and lower support calls by gies, activating power-saving settings and consolidating 50%. An added bonus: a more environmentally sound approach to printing, which devices can lower the energy use and carbon footprint has helped the company use an estimated 60% less paper and 32% less energy.* of PCs, printers and other devices. To learn more, visit www.hp.com/go/carbonfootprint. *  Printing cost, support call data, and paper and energy savings are estimates reported by Logica to demonstrate the advantages of HP Managed Print Services. 9% 112,000 In 2009, HP decreased The volume of electronic products and supplies TONNES total energy use by 9% HP recovered for recycling in 2009, including compared with 2008. 61 million print cartridges. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 7 A billion people rely on HP technology every day. We operate in approximately 170 countries with a workforce of over 300,000. And our supply chain is the largest in the IT industry, encompassing more than 700 production suppliers that employ over 300,000 workers. In ways large and small, HP’s commitment to global citizenship touches countless lives, businesses and communities worldwide every moment of every day. DAK AR, SENEGAL A scientist collaborates with peers worldwide by tapping into powerful grid computing technology provided by HP, slowing African “brain drain” by enabling her to advance research without leaving her native country. DETROIT, UNITED STATES The third-largest water and sewerage utility in the U.S. uses HP software to track and manage consumption in real time, helping conserve water and energy while reducing costs. HP GLOBAL CIUDAD JUAREZ, MEXICO Workers at an HP supplier participate in an educational session about preventative healthcare, part of the HERproject, a program to help women in the global supply chain access healthcare services. SAO PAULO, BRAZIL A large development company upgrades its data center, doubling its capacity while cutting its energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions by installing efficient HP blade servers and advanced HP cooling solutions. 8 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND TRONDHEIM, NORWAY A nurse responds to a patient call on her medical data assistant—based on an HP mobile device— and wirelessly accesses a smart network designed by HP to alert the attending physician to an emergency. SHENZHEN, CHINA The Shenzhen Stock Exchange, serving 35 million investors, relies on HP information security control solutions to safeguard $800 million in daily transactions. CITIZENSHIP MUMBAI, INDIA To complete her science assignment, a student logs into a virtual classroom, part of an online learning knowledge center funded by a grant from HP designed to extend the reach of education. JAK ARTA , INDONESIA Rather than boarding an airplane, a product devel­ opment team gathers in an HP Halo telepresence room to meet with colleagues in Berlin and Athens, saving 3,000 pounds of CO2 emissions per person. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 9 Three principles of HP’s responsible supply chain management In a global supply chain, local issues take on worldwide 2. Promoting collaboration significance. Labor rights in China, for instance, or Our supply chain is not ours alone. Because HP shares factory emissions in Mexico are linked to companies suppliers with others, we collaborate on issues that tran­ bringing products to market—even if they are many scend any single company. steps removed. In 2009 HP began working with the Electronic Industry This raises tough questions for HP, which has the Citizenship Coalition and IT companies to respond to largest IT supply chain. How far do our responsibilities human rights violations associated with the trade of extend? What issues can we meaningfully address? minerals from The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). How do we minimize risks to customers and meet These minerals are used to produce metals commonly stakeholder expectations? found in electronics. We take on these questions through our supply chain While the root issue is far removed from HP and social and environmental responsibility (SER) program. difficult to isolate—not all metals are sourced from the It focuses on building supplier capabilities, promoting DRC, and there can be more than five tiers of suppliers collaboration and increasing transparency. from their source to our direct suppliers—it is unaccept­ able that raw materials from the DRC contributing to 1. Building supplier capabilities armed conflict might end up in HP products. HP partners with NGOs to correct issues found through risk assessments and supplier audits. Together, we This is why HP is contributing to an industry effort train suppliers on best practices and tools for meeting to develop a certification process that will ensure HP’s rigorous code of conduct while helping them be conflict minerals from the DRC are not used to more efficient. manufacture electronics. For example, HP is working with Students and Scholars 3. Increasing transparency against Corporate Misbehavior to raise labor rights A cornerstone of our SER program is transparency. In awareness at two supplier sites in China. The pro­ 2008, HP was the first in our industry to publish its firstgram—the first of its kind in the IT industry—is training tier suppliers. We again broke new ground in 2009, about 4,500 workers on labor rights and has set up a when we reported emissions data for our largest suppliers. hotline for reporting grievances. We are taking these steps—along with reporting results of audits in our global citizenship reports—to drive improvements in the global IT supply chain and foster trust with stakeholders. Advancing women’s health In 2009, HP completed a pilot of the HERproject (or Health Enables Returns) at two suppliers in Mexico. HERproject joins companies, factories and local NGOs to promote female workers’ health through targeted workplace training programs. The catalyst for HERproject was a study by the David and Lucile Packard Foundation, which found poor awareness of general and reproductive health, family planning options and available health services among women in global supply chains. HERproject, which was launched by Business for Social Responsibility in 2007, complements HP’s approach to responsible supply chain management. Proactively improving the health of our supply chain workforce yields social and business benefits by reducing absenteeism while increasing productivity and retention. Building on the program’s success, HP has launched HERproject at three supplier sites in China. 700+ 590 300,000 Number of production In 2009, HP conducted 104 Number of workers at suppliers in HP’s supplier site audits, bringing supplier facilities that supply chain. our total since 2005 to 590. OVER produce HP products. 10 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND 500+ low-risk suppliers 18 new suppliers to be audited in 2010 153 suppliers audited through 2009 43 suppliers will be reaudited in 2010 OUTSIDE VOICES Prof. J. Ruggie UN Special Rep. on Business and Human Rights Human rights are relatively new on the agenda of most businesses. Yet their relevance to companies is compelling, as criticism, campaigns and lawsuits over alleged harm to human rights increasingly pose risks to compa­ nies’ reputations, operations, staff recruitment and retention, and their bottom line. In 2008, the UN Human Rights Council unanimously welcomed the “protect, respect and remedy” frame­ first-tier suppliers work I put forward for better managing the human rights challenges posed by, and faced by, companies. It comprises the state duty to protect against human rights abuses by business, the corporate respon­ sibility to respect human rights, and greater access by victims to effective remedy. The corporate responsibility to respect requires a process of human rights due diligence: that a company’s policies or other public commitments adequately incorporate human rights; that it periodically assesses its second-tier suppliers human rights impacts; integrates the results and operational implications across its decision mak­ ing; and tracks and reports on its performance. This process requires leadership from the top and an alignment of staff incentives across the company. And it involves engagement with those at risk of being impacted and avenues for them to raise concerns. Only with such a process in place can a company know and show that it is respecting human rights. I am grati­ third-tier suppliers fied to see more and more companies now working to ensure they can meet this baseline expectation. 4.1 CO2e emissions associated with suppliers’ material and MILLION manufacturing, according to data collected from suppliers TONNES that represent 86% of HP’s expenditures in those areas. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 11 CHANGING THE EQUATION HEALTHCARE A NEW PRESCRIPTION FOR BETTER CARE The healthcare industry is grappling with daunting Another example is the London Health Sciences Centre issues. Governments are mandating electronic medical in Ontario, Canada, which is using HP technology to records. Patients have heightened expectations for bet­ track infusion pumps for administering fluids. This frees ter care. Markets are demanding stronger financial per­ clinicians to spend more time with patients and less time formance. Meeting these challenges requires more than searching for equipment. incremental change. It calls for entirely new ways of thinking about, delivering, managing and tracking care Driving innovation and services. Technology can be a catalyst for expanding medical knowledge and treatment. HP believes technology is a prescription for change; it has the power to transform healthcare, making it HP envisions an integrated healthcare system where more affordable, effective and innovative. software and personalized services capture patient data, storing and securing it. Analyzing this information Increasing affordability can reveal trends, such as emerging epidemics, and Affordable healthcare hinges on creating efficiencies prompt more rapid and effective responses. in how providers deliver services and insurers process Centralized research will also enable the collective intel­ claims. Technology can simplify infrastructure and tools, ligence of the healthcare community to improve ser­ allocating more resources to care and fewer on overhead. vices. Expensive emergency room visits will be replaced For example, when the state of Kansas needed to with virtual consultations that focus on preventative care. revamp its Medicaid Management Information System, The integration of IT systems in hospitals and clinics will it turned to HP. Our technology streamlined processes, establish vital, more efficient connections between surgi­ enabling real-time exchange of information between cal theaters, smart beds, nursing stations and insurance providers and lowering administrative costs to less than billing systems. 2 percent of benefits. This vision is not far off. Today the world-respected Improving care M.D. Anderson Cancer Center is using HP highperformance computing to cut the time to analyze In the U.S., up to 98,000 people die annually from massive data sets from 20 minutes to 20 seconds. medical errors.19 Technology can reduce that number by Widening access to such technology is accelerating ensuring the best remedy is provided at the proper time, research and innovation, enabling drug companies to in the correct way, for the right person. bring medicines to market more quickly, for example. For example, HP handheld devices are allowing health­ care workers to access patient information and order medication and tests with greater speed and accuracy. 93% +3 2.4 Percentage of HP employees who HP expanded HERproject (or Number of healthcare BILLION rated workplace and job safety as Health Enables Returns) to three transactions handled each meeting or exceeding expectations. new supplier sites in China in 2009. year by HP technologies. 12 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND Did you know? HP is the worldwide leader in healthcare information technology, providing computing solutions to three out of four hospitals. It’s estimated that e-health initiatives will save the U.S. more than $80 billion a year.20 HP is the leading provider of Medicaid process management services, handling about 1 billion claims and administering approximately $100 billion in benefits each year. 38.4 111,000+ Number of patient visits supported Calls per year handled by HP technologies, from BILLION annually by HP’s clinical and potential enrollees in the Arkansas BreastCare program, administrative applications. which gives uninsured women access to healthcare. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 13 Harnessing the information explosion The digital universe is 500 billion gigabytes—equiva­ by HP Labs, BRAIN uses proprietary algorithms to tap lent to a stack of books stretching to Pluto and back ten into and apply the collective wisdom of experts to times.21 But here’s the even bigger issue: just 25 percent make accurate predictions about future events, such of the world’s population is online.22 as quarterly revenues or demand for products. The tool removes bias and generates more on-target fore­ That figure will dramatically rise as the population casts. An HP business unit relies on BRAIN, as does races toward 8 billion and technology becomes SwissCom, Switzerland’s leading telecom provider, to ever cheaper and accessible. Ubiquitous Internet predict revenue with greater efficiency and accuracy. access, more mobile devices, the advance of cloudbased services and the digitalization of virtually every Unstructured information represents another opportunity. aspect of our lives—these and countless other factors Roughly 80 percent of data stored by organizations falls will generate enormous volumes of data. into this category.23 It’s all the raw information—e-mails, audio and video files, HTML-based web pages—not The question is—how do we make sense of it all? Left organized in a database, making it very difficult to unaddressed, this explosion of information risks over­ search and analyze. whelming us. But while technology is fueling the chal­ lenge, it also holds the answer. With the right solutions, HP Labs is working on a solution called Live Business the information explosion represents an unprecedented Intelligence (Live BI), a unified data and analytics opportunity for greater intelligence, deeper insight and platform. By allowing much more powerful and sophisti­ smarter decisions. This is where HP is focusing our energies. cated analysis of highly complex data, Live BI will yield insights for transforming operational processes and BRAIN (short for Behaviorally Robust Aggregation of customer interactions. Information in Networks) is a prime example. Developed Tuning in to the planet Imagine a world in which your house heats itself just before you return, a bridge notifies officials when steel tie rods must be replaced, and the next hybrid flu virus is tracked around the globe in real time. All of this and more will be possible through the Central Nervous System for the Earth (CeNSE). In development by HP Labs, CeNSE will use billions of nanoscale sensors to feel, taste, smell, see and hear what is going on in the world and then transmit that data over powerful networks to be analyzed and acted on quickly. Having such deep intelligence on demand will empower better, faster decisions, improving safety and security while promoting greater sustainability. 2009 2008 2007 2006 97% 1/25 In 2009, more than 97% of HP HP is one of 25 companies employees completed Standards of involved in the Business Forum Business Conduct training. for Consumer Privacy. 14 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND 45% The digital universe is so vast that Today, one-third of digital it now exceeds available storage information includes personal space. According to an IDC white information; that’s forecast to paper, information surpassed stor­ rise to 45 percent by 2012.24 age capacity in 2007. By 2011, almost half of all digital information will be transient, or without a permanent location.21 Digital information Available storage capacity Protecting privacy in a connected world Privacy is a fundamental human right increasingly at risk. Today, one-third of digital information includes personal information; that’s forecast to rise to 45 per­ cent by 2012.24 As a result, HP is as focused on devel­ oping solutions to making the most of data as it is on keeping data safe and secure. Beyond integrating an array of security and privacy features into our products and services, HP is a found­ ing member of The Trusted Computing Group, which develops and promotes security standards for PCs, servers, PDAs and digital phones. But technology can go only so far—it must be supported by policies that guide informed decisions when handling data. 2011 HP’s privacy accountability model is a case in point. It is based on traditional criteria, such as the law, codes of conduct, contracts and programs such as Safe Harbor. But our model goes further by also considering 2010 company values, customer expectations and potential risks to our business and that of our stakeholders. We developed our accountability model in collabo­ ration with the Centre for Information Policy Leadership, and are working with that organization, regulators and advocacy organizations to encourage its wider adoption. 11 2009 HP scientists and engineers are working with 11 other In 2009, HP was named one of the companies on PICOS, a program to create confidence World’s Most Ethical Companies by in the safety of sharing data in online communities. the Ethisphere Institute. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 15 CHANGING THE EQUATION EDUCATION New lessons for A connected world Education goes hand in hand with economic devel­ Second, by making education more engaging. opment. The prosperity of communities and nations Building websites, writing blogs, creating digital video— depends on having individuals with the talent and skills many students are already doing these things on their to participate and compete in the knowledge economy. own. Joining learning with the activities students are A highly educated workforce has the power to drive naturally drawn to gives students a way to more deeply innovation, raise productivity and stimulate growth. connect to academic concepts. Students can use multi­ media to visualize complex problems, and use Internet At HP, we believe we can fuel learning and economic resources to access research or online chat programs to development by applying technology to broaden educa­ collaborate with their classmates. It’s a simple equation: tion’s reach and transform its impact. When students are more engaged, they learn more. First, by making education more relevant Third, by opening education up to everyone. to more people. The common model for education Approximately 80 percent of the world’s population hasn’t kept pace with the skills needed to succeed in lives in developing countries,25 where schools can be today’s information-intensive economy. Today’s students few and far between. Technology is a potent force of need the skills to use technology to find, synthesize and democratization, capable of freeing education from apply information efficiently. To meet this requirement, traditional settings and opening it up to more people in classrooms need to be as wired as the world around us. more places. Tools such as desktop videoconferencing Making technology an integral part of the educational can bring the classroom to individuals in rural areas, experience helps students master the Internet as well as and grid computing can connect academics in remote other core competencies, such as critical thinking and regions to their colleagues around the world. collaboration. It’s also a way of bridging the educa­ Read the case studies to the right to learn more about tional divide for underserved communities. And for what HP is doing to change the education equation. students with learning differences, technology can be used to tailor the curriculum to their individual needs. $30 500,000 In 2009, HP contributed more than HP will work with partner organizations to train a halfMILLION $30 million in education grants and million students globally through HP entrepreneurship programs worldwide. training programs by the end of 2010. 16 / Changing the equation: The impact of HP Global Citizenship in 2009—And BEYOND using The power of touch Technology can help students learn in a way that works best for their unique needs. At the Hope Technology School, teachers are using HP TouchSmart PCs to connect with students who have learning differences. By using HP TouchSmart Voice Notes, students record their voices and play the files back with a simple touch to the screen. This method is particularly helpful with students who have difficulty speaking, as it reinforces language skills and motivates them to speak more. Students also use their voice notes to communicate with classmates and teachers. Making the world a classroom Dynamic, interactive technology-based learning can better prepare students with the skills they need to succeed outside school walls. As a result of an HP Innovations in Education grant, students at the Universidad EAFIT, located in Medellín, Colombia, can now use mobile technologies such as HP tablet PCs and iPAQs to take the classroom wherever they go. They employ blogs, e-mail and instant messaging to collaborate with each another, communicate with their professors and share insights. Launching new entrepreneurs Technology can bring skills-based training to those outside of the educa­ tional system, such as young entrepreneurs. In partnership with the MicroEnterprise Acceleration Institute and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, HP supports the Graduate Entrepreneurship Training through IT (GET-IT) program to help 16to 25-year-olds begin careers and launch new busi­ nesses. Aspiring entrepreneurs can enroll at one of 100 GET-IT centers in Africa, Europe and the Middle East. Others can access training courses through an online portal, www.get-it-city.net. Stemming the tide of brain drain An estimated 70,000 skilled professionals, scientists, academics and research­ ers leave Africa each year to work in developed countries.26 A collaboration between HP and UNESCO is turning this “brain drain” into a “brain gain” by allowing university faculty to engage in real-time scientific collaboration from their home countries through grid and cloud computing. Since the pilot project launched in 2006, the program has connected 20 higher education institutions throughout the Middle East and Africa. Cheikh Anta Diop University in Senegal is using its access to the European Grid (EGEE) infrastructure to tap into computing power and storage capacity. Now, its scholars can collaborate with colleagues around the world and engage in cuttingedge university projects worldwide without having to leave their home countries. 100 153 By 2011, HP plans to connect 100 Number of Innovations in Education universities via grid technology through grant projects launched worldwide the UNESCO Brain Gain Initiative. by HP in 2009. SEE HP’s FULL GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT AT www.HP.COM/go/report / 17 To learn more, visit www.hp.com/go/GLOBALCITIZENSHIP endnotes 1 “The Expanding Digital Universe: A Forecast of Worldwide Information Growth Through 2010,” IDC white paper sponsored by IDC, March 2007. 2 Internet World Stats, as of September 2009. 3 “The New Global Middle Class: Potentially Profitable—but Also Unpredictable,” Knowledge@Wharton, July 2008, citing the World Bank. 4 “World Needs to Axe Greenhouse Gases by 80 pct: Report,” Reuters, April 19, 2007, citing the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research. 5 “The Price of Excess: Identifying Waste in Healthcare Spending,” PricewaterhouseCoopers, March 2009. 6 “Extrapolating Evidence of Health Information Technology Savings and Costs,” RAND Corporation, 2005. 7 “Out of School Adolescents,” United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, March 26, 2010. 8 “Inequality Undermining Education Opportunities for Millions of Children,” United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, November 25, 2009. 9 “Brain Drain and Capacity Building in Africa,” The International Development Research Centre, 2005, citing the International Organization for Migration. 10 “International Energy Outlook 2009,” U.S. Energy Information Administration. 11 “IT Directors Cite Energy Savings as No. 6 Data Center Concern,” Environmental Leader, citing a Symantec report, January 20, 2010. 12 “EPA Report to Congress on Server and Data Center Energy Efficiency,” August 2007. 13 “The New Reality of Balance and Optimization in Planning Green Data Centers,” William Kosik, HP white paper, August 2008. 14 “Service-Based Approaches to Improving Data Center Thermal and Power Efficiencies,” IDC white paper sponsored by HP, May 2007. 15 “Data Center Efficiency and Productivity,” Uptime Institute white paper, 2006. 16 “EPA Report to Congress on Server and Data Center Energy Efficiency,” August 2007. 17 “Revolutionizing Data Center Energy Efficiency,” McKinsey & Company, July 2008. 18 “Hidden Assets,” Photizo Group white paper, 2008. www.docusense.com/Photizogroup.pdf 19 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, citing “To Err is Human: Building a Safer Health System,” Institute of Medicine report, November 1999. 20 Financial Times: Health, May 2009, citing RAND Corporation. 21 “As the Economy Contracts, the Digital Universe Expands,” IDC white paper, sponsored by EMC, May 2009. 22 Internet World Stats, as of September 2009. 23 “The Business Issues of Not Managing Content,” Susan Clarke, The Butler Group, November 2009. 24 “As the Economy Contracts, the Digital Universe Expands,” IDC white paper, sponsored by EMC, May 2009. 25 2008 World Population Bulletin, Population Reference Bureau. 26 “AFRICA: New Project to Alleviate Brain Drain,” Clemence Manyukwe, University World News, Africa edition, June 22, 2008. © 2010 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein. 4AA0-5773ENW, April 2010
